 

 

 

 

Table of Contents 

Sr.No. 

Particulars 

Page No. 

Introduction 
Note from Managing Director’s desk 
Company History 
Onward eServices Limited – Brief Profile  
Vision and Mission 
Our Global Footprint 
Quality Policy 
Equal Opportunity Employer  
Joining  
Deputation 
Salary 
Income Tax Planning 
Confidentiality 
Conflict of Interest  
Probation 
Employee Background Verification 
Business/Visiting Cards 
Expectations from employees  
Non-Disclosure 
Conditions of Employment  

1 
1.1 
1.2 
1.3 
1.4 
1.5 
1.6 
1.7 
2 
2.1 
2.2 
2.3 
2.4 
2.5 
2.6 
2.7 
2.8 
3 
3.1 
4 
4.1  Working hours and attendance  
Dress code 
4.2 
Usage of Identity Card 
4.3 
Holidays 
4.4 
Leaves 
4.5 
4.5.1 
Privileged Leave 
4.5.2  Maternity Leave 
Paternity Leave 
4.5.3 
Telephone, Computer and other Infrastructure Use 
4.6 
4.7 
Internet Policy 
Email Policy 
4.8 
Office Guidelines 
4.9 
4.10 
Safety Policy 
4.11  Workplace Security Policy  
4.12  Good Housekeeping 
4.13  No Smoking Policy 
4.14  No Drug abuse 
4.15  Usage of phones 

5 

Compensation 

4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
10 
11 
14 
14 
14 
15 
15 
16 
17 
17 
18 
19 
20 
20 
21 
23 
24 
25 
25 
27 
28 
28 
29 
30 
31 
32 
33 
33 
33 
34 
34 
35 

Back to Index 

 

2 

 

Compensation Policy 
Grades 
Compensation Break Up 
Provident Fund & Pension Scheme 
Gratuity 
Variable Compensation (Annual) 
Benefits 
Group Mediclaim Insurance  
ESIC 
Group Personal Accident Insurance 
Parental Insurance Program 
Travel Policy 
Business Travel Partner : Uber 
Corporate Credit Card Policy 
Technical Certification 

5.1 
5.2 
5.3 
5.4 
5.5 
5.6 
6 
6.1 
6.2 
6.3 
6.4 
6.5 
6.6 
6.7 
6.8 
6.9  Mobile Connection Policy 
6.10 

7 
7.1 
8 
8.1 
9 
9.1 
9.2 
9.3 
9.4  Whistleblower Policy 
10 
10.1 
11 
11.1 
12  Miscellaneous 
12.1 
12.2  Overseas Assignments/Opportunities 
12.3 
12.4 
12.5 
12.6 
12.7 
12.8 
12.9 
12.10 

Assets 
Laptop Policy 
Inspection Policy 
Social Media Policy 
Job Safety 
Copyright 
Statements to Media 
Suggestions 
FAQs 

Long Service Award 
Payroll 
Payroll Process 
Performance Management System 
Performance Management System  
Disciplinary Policy 
Disciplinary Action 
Unacceptable Activities 
Anti-Harassment & POSH (Prevention Of Sexual Harassment) 

Separation  
Separation Policy 
Learning & Development 
Learning & Development Policy 

Events 

13 

Back to Index 

35 
36 
36 
37 
38 
38 
39 
39 
41 
42 
42 
43 
45 
45 
46 
47 
48 
49 
49 
50 
50 
52 
52 
53 
53 
56 
56 
56 
62 
62 
63 
63 
65 
65 
66 
66 
67 
68 
68 
69 
69 
70 

 

3 

 

 
 
 
 
 

(FOR PRIVATE CIRCULATION ONLY) 

  

 

1. Introduction 

 

Nothing contained in this Handbook is intended to create (nor shall be construed as creating) a contract of 
employment  (express  or  implied) or  guarantee employment for  any term  or  for  any specific procedures. 
Employment security cannot be guaranteed for or by any employee under this Handbook, unless OeSL and 
the employee enter into an explicit written employment agreement. 

  

This  employee  handbook  will  be  reviewed  once  in  a  year  (end  of  every  calendar  year)  and  appropriate 
changes will be made, if required.  Any changes, in between, shall be informed to all employees at the time 
of change.  

  

Note: This document is valid without a signature. 

 

Back to Index 

4 

          1.1   Note from Managing Director’s desk 

 

 

Dear Onward Team, 
 
28 years ago, we embarked on a journey to build an organisation which would reflect 
the  ethos  of  the  people  who  built 
it.  Trust,  Integrity,  Accountability  & 
Confidentiality - the good old values still hold true. 
 
Over the years, the world has changed, industry has changed ever more. Technology 
on the other hand is not just changing, it is disrupting every walk of life. These are 
very  interesting  times,  times  of  great  opportunities,  and  we  find  ourselves  in  a 
position where we now genuinely believe we will become a force to reckon with. 
 
Onward Technologies stands on the cusp of something big, something enviable, and 
each one of us has a defined part to play. 
 
2019 was the perfect year to test the waters & all the fantastic work we did has given 
us the impetus and confidence that we can move mountains when 2600+ of us pull 
together.  In  all  areas,  we  challenged  the  status  quo  and  stretched  goals  became 
realistic targets. Be it adding new Fortune 1000 accounts or opening new avenues within existing strategic accounts, 
we did this with a gusto. Our ambition to ensure we thrive, and not just survive encouraged us to add new business 
lines and in next to no time, we developed some fantastic capabilities in Data Analytics, Embedded, AI and Machine 
Learning (ML). Our team acquired not just great capabilities, but also seasoned leadership. We added several senior 
members with fantastic credentials, within their areas of expertise, to ensure the organisation culture will always be 
of delivering high performance. This was evident when we met our goal of making OeSL (Onward eServices Ltd) debt 
free within the timelines we targeted. This same go-getter attitude has ensured our employee insurance program 
now comes with increased coverage and also includes parents' insurance. Onward Technologies as a brand is gaining 
prominence and the market is now expecting great things. A focused effort is already underway to ascertain our brand 
offering  and  positioning  communicates  the  'new'  Onward  Technologies  story  -  consistently,  repeatedly  and 
assertively. This brand message is not confined to any one geography and our choice of partners in banking, investor 
outreach and other areas, reflects this global organisation attitude. 
 
2020 is when the action starts. We now have laser focus on where  Onward Tech should be and how to get there. 
Fortune 1000 global accounts will drive our aggressive growth strategy, and each of these accounts has the potential 
into becoming a multi-million dollar strategic account. A sales focussed culture along with a renewed brand strategy 
and  first  time  right  delivery  approach  will  place  us  favorably  to  achieve  this.  Our  customers  are  transitioning  to 
Industry 4.0 and we will continue to invest significantly in these areas to have the right people in the right place with 
the right set of capabilities, to serve them. This is the story our stakeholders are most interested in and the fresh 
corporate  finance  and  investor  outreach  strategy  revolves  around  Onward  Tech  building  these  capabilities  - 
organically, inorganically and through strategic alliances with global players. 
 
Our success depends on how customer  focused we get and how 2600+ strong  Onward Tech team collaborates to 
ensure we deliver in line with our promise. 
 
So, I wish you all the very best and invite your whole hearted participation to achieve this growth story together. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Jigar Mehta  
Talent wins games, but teamwork and intelligence win championships - Michael Jordan 

Back to Index 

5 

 

1.2 Company History 

Back to Index 

 

6 

Inaugurated 1st Engineering Design Services(EDS) Global Head Office spread over 26,000 sq. ft. at PuneLaunch of Troy Engineering Centre (TEC) in Michigan to provide local support to NA's clientsExpanded OTI North American operations into 3 offices i.e. Chicago & Detroit for EDS business & Boston for ITS businessOeSL achieves prestigious CMMI Level 3 certification by KPMGOpened exclusive Global Delivery Center (GDC) in Pune for Strategic EDS Clients.Expansion of EDS business in North America (OTI)Setup Branch Operations in Reading, UK & invested in Frankfurt (Onward Technologies GmBH) office to make it fully operational. Restructured OeSL (Onward eServices Ltd)  to focus on ADM, FMS, IMS and PS services50: 50 JV established between Onward Group & Novell, Inc for the Indian sub-continent Launch of Onward Technologies with HQ in Mumbai, India2006-20101992-20051996-20052011-201320141991OTL was publically listed on both Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE) & National Stock Exchange (NSE)Established 100% subsidiary; Onward Technologies Inc (OTI) in North America in 1996Established 100 % subsidiaries viz. OeSL (Onward eServices Ltd) and OTG (Onward Technologies GmBH) in 2003 supporting ITS and EDS business respectively ISO 9001 and ISMS-ISO 27001 Certification by TUVNew office opened in Milwaukee to focus on Wisconsin customers.New branch office at World Trade Center, Pune to establish EDS India sales office-an exclusive focus & commitment for india clients.Investments in Chennai to expand OeSL ITS business in south of India, Chennai Engineering Center(CEC) & new practice lines.2016New office opened in Cleveland to focus on Ohio customers.NewBU's Formed -IB , EDS(i) & ITS(i)2017ProductSales and Services Partnership with Dassault Systems, SAP, PTC and QuarkExclusiveDesign Centre Launched for a Strategic Client2018New State of Art Facility Opened in PuneMagarpatta for Strategic ClientsPracticeslike Embedded, IOT, PLM & Data Science startedParental Insurance Program rolled out2019 

1.3 Onward eServices Limited – Brief Profile  

 

 

Onward eServices Ltd is a young and dynamic IT Solutions and Services company with an ISO 9001-
2015 & CMM Level 3 certification. OeSL is currently supporting top Global Organizations and MNCs 
in India in the areas of  

  Enterprise Applications Development & Maintenance for IT and Engineering 

Technology Applications  

  Embedded Solutions and Services 
  Data Management and Analytics 
  Data Science and Digital Transformation  
  Enterprise Managed Services for Infra, Databases and Applications, and 
  Professional Services for all of the above Service Offerings  

 

 

To know more about OeSL, please visit website www.onwardgroup.com  

 

 
 

 
 

Back to Index 

 

7 

 

1.4  Vision, Mission & Values  

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

  

  

 

 

 

 
 

 
 
 

Back to Index 

 

  

 

  

  

  

8 

 

  

  

  

 

 
1.5 Our Global Footprint   

Mumbai (Registered 

Office and Corporate HQ) 

Mumbai 

Pune 

2nd Floor, Sterling Centre, 

No. 152, SDF V, 1st Floor, 

Dr. A. B. Road, Worli, 

SEEPZ, Andheri (East) 

E-Space IT Park, Building # 
A3, 3rd Floor, Pune Nagar 

Mumbai- 400018 

Mumbai 400096 

Road, Pune 411014 

Pune 

Pune 

Chennai 

INDIA 

Almonte IT Park, 5th Floor, 

Next to Radisson Blu 
Hotel, Kharadi, Pune 

World Trade Centre 
(WTC) Tower II, Office 
No 201 & 202, Kharadi, 

Rayala Techno Park, 5th floor, 

144/7 Rajiv Gandhi Salai 

(OMR), Kottivakkam, Chennai 

411014 

Pune 

1st Floor, B – Wing – 102,  
Pentagon Tower Building 
P5, Magarpatta City, Pune 
– 411 028 INDIA 

Illinois (North America 

HO) 

Pune 411 014 

- 600041 

  

- 

  

- 

Michigan 

Ohio 

USA 

5600 N River Road, Suite 
425, Rosemont, IL, 60018 

2800 Livernois, Suite E 
165, Troy, MI, 48083 

837 Crocker Rd, Westlake, 

OH 44145  

 Germany 

United Kingdom 

EUROPE 

Kirchnerstrasse 4, 60311, 

Frankfurt am Main, 

GERMANY 

Vancouver House, 111, 
Hagley Road, Edgbaston, 

Birmingham, B16 8LB, 

United Kingdom 

  

-  

Back to Index 

 

9 

 

1.6 Quality Policy 
 

 

Onward  eServices  Limited  is ISO  9001-2015  Certified  Company.  We  expect  employees to  get  acquainted 
with Onward eServices Limited’s Quality Policy and Procedures available on the intranet. 

 

Employees  are  required  to  strictly  adhere  to  all  the  ISO quality  standards  and  norms.  Onward  eServices 
Limited’s Quality Manual is available on the company’s intranet. 

 

Our Quality Policy 

 

“To ensure customer satisfaction in the field of Design, Development and Maintenance of Software Solutions and 
IT Facility Management Services by OeSL” 

 

To  commit  as  an  organization  and  as  individuals,  to  continuously  create, implement  and  improve  quality 
management systems for achieving excellence in our work environment and business processes.  

 

To aim at, doing it right, the First Time Every Time and to inculcate this in all our efforts”.  
 
1.7 Equal Opportunity Employer 

 

Onward eServices Limited is an Equal Opportunity Employer. The Company has an ongoing commitment to 
affirmative action and the creation of a workplace free of discrimination and harassment. It is Company 
policy to select the best-qualified person for each position in the organization. The Company recruits, 
hires, trains, and promotes individuals in all job titles without regard to race, color, creed, religion, 
ancestry, sexual orientation, national origin, age, sex and physical disability.  

 

At Onward eServices Limited, we are committed to a fair and equitable workplace where everyone is a 
respected and valued member of the team.  

 

This policy applies to all employment practices and personnel actions including but not limited to 
advertising, recruitment, testing, screening, hiring, selection for training, upgrading, transfer, demotion, 
layoff, termination, rates of pay, and other forms of compensation. 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 

Back to Index 

10 

 

Guidelines: 

2. Joining 

 

  Newly joined employees are required to complete Joining Formalities on the day of joining, 
submit their complete set of mandatory documents (self-attested) for the HR records & files 
  Employees are required to submit following documents of their joining formalities within 3 

working days from their Date of Joining 

  The originals need to be also presented for verification at the time of joining 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Back to Index 

11 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Back to Index 

 

12 

 

 

As a part of Joining formality, below documentation needs to be completed 
  Joining Report 
  Application Form 
  PF Nomination Form (Form-2) 
  PF Declaration Form (Form-11) with UAN Number as applicable 
  ESIC Declaration Form (Form-1) 
  Employee’s Gratuity Form 
  Form 12 B 
  Declaration for Mediclaim Hospitalization Coverage 
  Employee Background verification form (Applied to specific project) 
  Investment Declaration Form (for Income tax computation) 

 

  The appointment letter will be issued strictly only after completing all the joining formalities 

and submission of above mentioned documents 

  Employee joining in the grade E3 / M3 and above or who get promoted in the grade E3 / M3 

and above are required to sign Non-Compete Agreement 

  All  employees  are  bound  by  Non  Solicitation  clauses  as  mentioned  in  detail  in  the 

appointment letter 

  Employee/SP number will be allotted upon joining. All are requested to use this number for 

future correspondences 

  Employees  at  OeSL  shall  be  allotted  official  email  id,  which  should  be  used  for  all  official 

correspondence in the service tenure 

  All  employees  are  bound  by  Non  Solicitation  clauses  as  mentioned  in  detail  in  the 

appointment letter 

  An  Identity  Card  will  be  provided  within  7  working  days  of  joining  and  it  is  mandatory  to 
provide the blood group & ICE (In Case of Emergency number) which is to be mentioned on 
the joining report by the employee without which the identity card will not be issued 

  Visiting cards are provided based on need and subject to approval from BU Head 

  After completing the joining formalities, respective HR BP will guide the new employee to 

the respective business functions 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

Back to Index 

13 

 

2.1 Deputation  
 

 

 

 
 

 

  Deputation letter is provided to employee who are working at client location with the terms and 
condition which is to be followed at client location. This is not a mandatory document and is provided 
to employees for specific clients only. 

  Deputation allowance would be applicable for any domestic engagement exceeding 4 weeks, 

outside of base location. Furthermore, the below amount will be paid to the employees as 
deputation allowance only on approval from the BU Head and as per client agreement.  

Deputation allowance amount per month in INR: 

 
Tier 1 Cities 
Tier 2 Cities 
Tier 3 Cities 

E4/M4 and above 

E5/E6 and below 

60000 
40000 
30000 

50000 
35000 
25000 

 
 
2.2 Salary 

 

At OeSL, attendance cut-off date is 25th of every month. However, salary is paid for full month (1st to last 
day of the month) Employees, who have completed the joining formalities before 25th of the month will be 
paid salary in the same month and the employees completing their joining formalities on or after 25th of the 
month will be paid a cumulative salary in the following payroll.  

 

No advance will be paid against Salary. Only PDF file of salary slip will be sent through email on  Onward 
email address. It is mandatory for all Employees’ to have their PAN Card/Aadhaar Card. If the same is not 
available, one has to immediately apply for and the same has to be intimated to the HR on receipt of the 
same. 

 

Salary disbursement for all on role employees will be done on or before 5th day of the month. 

  

 

 

2.3 Income Tax Planning 
 
New employees and existing employees have to submit the Income Tax Projection Form (soft copy) to the 
payroll with the proposed investment details for tax calculation. The existing employees should provide this 
on 1st April of each year. The new employees should provide this immediately after joining to avoid excess 
tax deduction. An employee can modify the investment projection and inform the payroll before January. It 

Back to Index 

14 

 

 

is mandatory for the new employees to declare the earnings and deductions of their previous employment 
during the financial year in Form 12B. 
 
The payroll provides income tax projection working sheet on monthly basis along with the salary slip to the 
employees until the company develops a web-based payroll management system. Any clarifications on the 
Salary discrepancy should be routed through your respective HR BP. 
 
Until January, the salary of all employees will be processed on the basis of the projections submitted. The 
employees  have  to  submit  the  actual  investment  proofs  in  February  along  with  a  pre-designed  form  as 
evidence of investments. Salary for February will be processed and income tax will be calculated on the 
basis of the proofs submitted by the employee. Any payment / investment due/ paid after February should 
be managed by the employee while filing the income tax return. 
 
Permanent Account Number (PAN) is mandatory for all employees & SPs. Form 16 will be generated only 
for employees who provide the PAN number to the payroll. 
 
 
2.4 Confidentiality 

 

Confidentiality is a core value in Onward, and is applicable to all the employees of the Company during the 
course of the employment and also after they have separated from OeSL.  All employees and other 
representatives of the Company are required to adhere to the confidentiality policies of the Company and 
ensure strict compliance. In general, the employees should refrain from disclosing any unwarranted 
information pertaining to the Client / the service offered to the Client, Rates and other terms of contract 
between the client and the Company / or any such information that is not available to the general public. 
Any information related to compensation is not supposed to be discussed or disclosed. 

 
 

2.5 Conflict of Interest  

 

Employees must avoid any relationship or activity that might impair, or even appear to impair, their ability 
to make objective and fair decisions when performing their jobs. At times, an employee may be faced with 
situations in which business actions taken on behalf of the Company may conflict with the employee’s own 
personal interests. Company property, information or business opportunities may not be used for personal 
gain. 

 

Conflicts of interest could arise in the following circumstances:  

  

  Being employed by, or acting as a consultant to, a competitor or potential competitor, supplier or 

contractor, regardless of the nature of the employment, while employed with OeSL 

  Hiring or supervising family members or closely related persons 

Back to Index 

15 

 

 

  Serving as a board member for an outside commercial company or organization 

  Owning or having a substantial interest in a competitor, supplier or contractor 

  Accepting gifts, discounts, favours or services from a customer/potential customer, competitor or 

supplier, unless equally available to all company employees 

  Employees with a conflict-of-interest question should seek advice from management. Before engaging 
in any activity, transaction or relationship that might give rise to a conflict of interest, employees must 
seek review from their manager or the Human Resource department 

 

 
2.6 Probation 

 

All new hires will be on probation for 6 months from the date of joining and the probation period is intended 
to  give  new  employees  an  opportunity  to  demonstrate  their  ability  to  achieve  a  satisfactory  level  of 
performance and to determine whether the new position meets their expectations.  OeSL uses this period 
to  evaluate  employee’s  capabilities,  work  habits  and  overall  performance.    Any  significant  absence  will 
automatically  extend  the  probation  period  by  the  length  of  the  absence.  If  OeSL  determines  that  the 
designated  probation  period  does  not  allow  sufficient  time  to  thoroughly  evaluate  the  employee's 
performance,  the  probation  period  may  be  extended  for  a  further  specified  period.  If  there  is  no 
improvement at the end of such extended probation period, employee may either be counselled again and 
another  extension  may  be  given  or  management  reserves  right  to  terminate  such  employee’s  services. 
While on probation, service can be terminated by either the employee or the organization by giving one 
month written notice or salary thereof. Upon satisfactory completion of the Probation Period, employees 
enter the "Permanent" employment classification. 
 

•  Probation period will not be applicable to the employees joining in grades E3/M3 and above 
•  For any intra company transfers to Onward India, probation period will be waived off 
•  All employees who rejoin OeSL will also be on a probation period 
•  Service Professional converted to full time employee will also have to serve the minimum probation 

period as per policy 

 
Procedure 
 

  HR will send intimation of the employee due for probationary review to the manager 15 days 

before the completion of probation period 

  Reporting  Managers  will  conduct  a  probationary  review  for  the  respective  employee  and 

provide the ratings / evaluation results to Human Resources department 

  Based on this review, the employee will be informed:  

  If the employee is confirmed, a letter to that effect will be issued to the employee 
  If employee’s probation is extended, a letter to that effect will be issued to employee 

Back to Index 

16 

  If the employee is not found suitable, a letter indicating Onward’s inability to continue 

the offer of employment will be issued 

 

 

 

 
2.7 Employee Background Verification 
 

  As a part of the joining formalities, the Company may, at its discretion, conduct background 
checks  to  validate  the  details  of  education,  conduct  background  checks  on  employee’s 
identity,  address  provided  and  criminal  records  as  well  as  previous  employment  details 
furnished by the employee 

  The  Employee  hereby  explicitly  authorizes  OeSL  and  its  representatives  to  verify  the 
information  provided  in  the  employee’s  credentials  and  to  conduct  enquires  as  may  be 
necessary, at the company’s discretion 

  The  Employee  also  authorizes  all  the  persons  who  may  have  information  relevant  to  this 

enquiry to disclose the same to OesL, or its representatives 

 

 

In the event that the background check raises any concerns regarding the Employees details, 
the Company reserves the right to ask the Employee for further evidence, to substantiate the 
details that the Employee has provided to the Company 

If the employee is not able to substantiate these details to the satisfaction of the Company, 
the Company reserves the right to take appropriate action against the employee, including, 
but not limited to termination of employment 

  Company reserves right to recover Background Verification Charges from an employee, if 

done through a third party vendor 

 
 
2.8 Business Cards 
 
Based on role & approval from the BU Head, employees shall be provided with business cards. All employees 
in grade M4/E4 & above are eligible for business cards. The Admin Department will arrange the Business 
Cards within 7 working days of joining the company. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Back to Index 

17 

 

 
 
 
 

3. Expectations from Employees 

 

Onward eServices believes in talented Professionals who desire to achieve outstanding performance 
through their competence and expertise. The OeSL culture encourages its employees to focus on 
productivity, quality and timeliness of work. 

 

It is important to maintain professional image and work ethics, while you present yourself to 
customers, both external and internal at all times 

  Set and follow a performance and solution driven approach  

  Be accountable and take ownership for ensuring appropriate and effective management of any 

situation  

  Ensure clear and timely communication to all stakeholders internal or external 

 

cooperate, share and assist fellow employees to build and sustain a positive outlook and 
environment - Be a team player 

  Be respectful, courteous and polite 

  Help business move forward. Look for solutions, seek out things you could do better or differently 

to increase the team’s chances for success 

  Generate and implement creative ideas and work smart 

  Actively participate in all organization level event activities adding energy and vibrancy 

 

 
 
 

Back to Index 

18 

 

3.1 Non-Disclosure 

 

 

The protection of confidential business information and trade secrets is vital to the interests and the success 
of OeSL. Such confidential information includes, but is not limited to, the following: 

 
Examples: 
 
  Compensation data 
  Pending projects and proposals 
  Computer processes 
  Computer programs and codes  
  Research and development strategies 
  Customer lists  
  Customer preferences 
  Financial information  
  Technological data 
  Marketing strategies 
 

Employees who improperly use or disclose trade secrets or confidential business information will be subject 
to disciplinary action, up to and including termination of employment and legal action, even if they do not 
actually benefit from the disclosed information. 

 

Back to Index 

19 

 

 

4. Conditions of Employment 

 
 

 
4.1 Working Hours and Attendance  
 

 

  The official working days for Onward eServices Limited are Monday to Friday from 9:00 am to 6:30 
pm. Based on the specific job requirements / project assignments, employees may be required to 
work on weekends as well 

  Employees  may  be  required  to  work  beyond  office  hours  to  complete  tasks  assigned  by  their 
superiors  to  enable  the  company  to  meet  its  commitments  to  customers.  However,  it  is 
recommended that the Female employees should not stay in office beyond 7.30 PM 

  Employees are required to complete 9 productive hours, on all working days (excluding tea/coffee, 

breakfast, lunch breaks) 

  All employees are expected to adhere and maintain a maximum of 30 minutes break per day (this 
includes all the breaks) The attendance is recorded through the biometric systems and entries in 
register  

  Punching biometric access machine is mandatory every time while entering and exiting at each door 

(tail gaiting to be avoided as it may result in disciplinary actions) 

  Employees are also required to sign in registers kept at the security desks at the entrance, ensuring 
exact in and out time is recorded, any deviations observed with biometric records will be classified 
as misconduct, which will result into disciplinary actions 

  Employee maybe required to go on Outdoor duty/ Supplier visit/ Client visit / Working from client 
location,  in  such  case  “Official  Movement”  register  is  to  be  filled  in  by  the  employee  and  duly 
approved by the manager in advance. An intimation e-mail to HR & Admin should be provided for 
attendance records 

  On any day maximum 30 minutes of grace period in IN TIME is permissible, however in such scenario, 

employee is required to complete 9 net effective working hours 

  Anyone reporting the office after 10.00 AM will be marked as late coming. Third late mark will be 
marked as a Half Day. Post the third late mark every late mark will be marked as a Half day leave 
deduction  from  leave  balance  based  on  available  leaves  otherwise  it  would  be  treated  as  leave 
without pay/LOP 
Lunch break shall be for half an hour between 12:30 PM – 2:30 PM. Member from same team will 
not go for the lunch or for short breaks together. There must be someone available at the desk for 
answering queries 

 

  Employees working at Company’s client location need to follow the attendance system at respective 
client location to whom they are assigned, including lunch and other break periods, if any and have 
to submit monthly approved timesheets to the respective Reporting Manager with copy to HR BP 
within the specified timeline (on or before 25th of the current month) 

Back to Index 

20 

 

 

  Service Professionals are required to submit the duly approved timesheet by their managers for the 
previous  month  to  the  HR  &  Admin  on  or  before  3rd  day  of  current  month.  The  payment  of 
professional fees is considered after 7 working days from date of submission of timesheet. In case 
of delays in submitting the timesheet, the pay-out will be considered in subsequent month 

  The company does not allow negative leave balance. The company reserves the right to deduct the 

 

salary of an employee against the negative leave balance 
In unforeseen circumstances, which compel you to remain absent without prior intimation, you are 
requested to keep your Manager informed about your whereabouts and also the likely resuming 
date, which will help him/her to plan the work schedule.  

  Any unapproved attendance will be marked as Leave without Pay  

  Under  no  circumstances  should  employee  complete  a  Timesheet  Report  on  behalf  of  another 
Employee or record hours s/he worked on another Employee’s Timesheet Report. Recording hours 
on another Employee’s Timesheet Report or completing a Timesheet on behalf of another Employee 
will result in disciplinary action, up to and including termination 

  Employees are not entitled to “Work from Home” 

  For employees directly reporting to the MD, the shift timing shall be general  

 

 
4.2 Dress Code  
 
It is important to all the employees to project a professional image while at work by being appropriately 
attired. OeSL employees are expected to be neat & clean while on job. Clothing must be consistent with the 
business environment and must be appropriate to the type of work being performed. 
 
 

Appropriate Business Wear (Monday-Thursday) 

 Men 

 Women 

Shirts: Formal shirts 

Indian Formal Wear 

Trousers: Formal trousers 
Accessories: Ties - Mandatory for 
Sales Personnel, E4, M4 & above 
grades 

Business suits for client meetings 

Footwear: Formal shoes  

Western Formal Wear 

Accessories: Decent & subtle  

Business suits/Formal sarees for 
client meetings 

Footwear: Formal footwear that 
goes with your attire 

 

 

Back to Index 

21 

Don'ts (Monday-Thursday) 

Men 

 Women 

Refrain from wearing T-shirts, 
casual or semi-formal shirts, with 
large prints and bright colors 

Refrain from wearing 
inappropriate quoted, animated, 
muscle T-shirts 
Refrain from wearing denims, 
shorts, capris (3/4ths), corduroys, 
chinos, cargo pants, ripped, low 
waist, printed jeans etc. 
Refrain from wearing sneakers, 
sport shoes, sandals, flip-flops 
etc. 

Refrain from wearing casual T-
shirts, off-shoulder tops, short T-
shirts, crop tops, tank tops, 
racerback tops, strap outfits 
Refrain from wearing 
inappropriate quoted, animated 
T-shirts 
Refrain from wearing denims, 
shorts, capris, chinos, six pocket 
trousers, cargo pants, ripped, low 
waist, printed jeans etc. 
Refrain from wearing fancy, 
flashy and loud footwear or 
sneakers 

 

 

Semi-formal Wear (Friday) 

Men 

 Women 

Shirts/T-shirts (Collared) (tucked 
in) 

Tops, t-shirts, Shirts 

Denims (Jeans): Preferably blue & 
black 

Denims (Jeans): Preferably blue & 
black 

Accessories: Jackets appropriate 
for office environment  

Accessories: Decent, daily wear, 
subtle accessories 

Footwear: Formal/Semi formal 
shoes 

Footwear: Footwear that goes 
with your attire 

 

 

 

 

 

Back to Index 

 

22 

 

 

 

Don'ts (Monday-Thursday) 

Men 

 Women 

Refrain from wearing T-shirts, 
casual or semi-formal shirts, with 
large prints and bright colors 

Refrain from wearing 
inappropriate quoted, animated, 
muscle T-shirts 
Refrain from wearing denims, 
shorts, capris (3/4ths), corduroys, 
chinos, cargo pants, ripped, low 
waist, printed jeans etc. 
Refrain from wearing sneakers, 
sport shoes, sandals, flip-flops etc. 

Refrain from wearing casual T-
shirts, off-shoulder tops, short T-
shirts, crop tops, tank tops, 
racerback tops, strap outfits 
Refrain from wearing 
inappropriate quoted, animated T-
shirts 
Refrain from wearing denims, 
shorts, capris, chinos, six pocket 
trousers, cargo pants, ripped, low 
waist, printed jeans etc. 
Refrain from wearing fancy, flashy 
and loud footwear or sneakers 

  During a client / customer visit, everyone must be in a formal attire be it a Friday 
  Department Heads must ensure that the employees working in their team adhere to the dress 

code at all times 

  While  attire  plays  an  important  role  in  representation,  personal  hygiene  &  grooming  also 

expected to be maintained as per the required professional appearance 

  For  employees  directly  reporting  to  the  MD,  the  dress  code  shall  be  ‘formals’  on  all  the 

working days 
In case of doubt feel free to contact the HR department 

 
  Employees  above  E3/M3  and  Sales/Marketing  required  to  wear  Tie  from  Monday  to 

Thursday. In case of client visit on Friday they are expected to wear Tie without fail 

Disciplinary action may be taken against the employee who doesn’t adhere to the policy. 

 
4.3 Usage of Identity Card 
 

  All employees reporting to Onward offices are required to wear the identity cards with the neck 

strap provided at the time of joining  

  The Identity card should be clearly visible 

 

In case of loss of Identity Card by any employee including employees deputed Onsite, he/she 
should report to the respective HR BP within 24 hours 

  The employee will be charged INR 100/- towards loss and re issue of the Identity Card 

  The new Identity Card shall be issued within 1 month of reported loss of the card 

Back to Index 

23 

 

 

  The employees need to wear a temporary card in case of loss of card 

  The employees need to wear the correct color belt along with the identity card 

•  Blue Belt: Permanent employees 

•  Red Belt: Visitors 

•  Yellow Belt: Employees from other Onward offices, Service Professionals and contract 

resources 

  The Identity card can also be produced at various different establishments to avail discounts as 

informed every quarter 

 

4.4 Holidays 
 

  The company, in accordance with the National Festivals and Holidays Act 1953, will issue a list of 10 

holidays for every new calendar year  

  The HR department will release the list of Holidays for the year in the month of December in the 

previous year 

  Employees deputed to client sites (within India) will follow the list of holidays as practiced by client 

organizations 

 

Please note 01st January 2021 will be a holiday. 

 
  Note: West region includes OeSL offices located in Mumbai and Pune, South region includes OeSL offices in Chennai. 

 

 

 

Back to Index 

24 

 

 

Kindly refer to the guidelines below to be followed with regards to the Holidays in the Year 2020: 

 
  All holidays, as defined above, are fixed for the Year 2020. 

  Employees  working  at  client locations  are  required  to observe  holidays  declared  by  the 

respective clients 

 

**OeSL Holidays listed above will be administered by the following guidelines: 

                 

  OeSL offices viz. SEEPZ, OMR, will observe leaves during the set **OeSL Holidays - It will be a 

paid leave and will not impact leave balance of the employees 

  For all employees working at client site, the above **OeSL Holidays do not apply and they are 

required to follow client guidelines 
In  case  of  planned  delivery  schedules,  employees  are  required  to  consult  with  respective 
reporting  managers  on  leaves,  who  in  turn  needs  to  plan  team’s  presence  to  ensure 
uninterrupted deliveries 

 

 

4.5 Leaves 
 
OeSL believes in work and life balance. All the full time regular employees are entitled to the following types 
and quantum of leaves. 
 
Availing of these leaves will be governed by the procedures indicated herein. 

 

  
4.5.1 Privileged Leave 

 
  Leaves are calculated from 1st January - 31st December of every year 
  All full time regular employees are entitled to 21 working days of Privilege Leave per financial 

 

year 
In  case  of  employees  joining  the  organization  in  the  course  of  the  year,  the  leave  will  be 
calculated on a pro-rata basis and considered accordingly 

  Leave is calculated at the rate of 1.75 days for every calendar month served 

  For  employees  on  probation  one-day  leave  per  month  will  be  credited  at  the  end  of  each 
completed  month.  During  the  probation  period,  employees  are  allowed  to  take  maximum 
one-day leave per month, with a prior approval of the respective Manager. Any additional 
leave above one leave will be considered as “Leave Without Pay”. In case of continuous leave 
for  5  or  more  working  days  during  the  probation  period,  company  reserves  the  right  to 
terminate services of employee 

  Leave will be credited on a monthly basis at the end of each completed month. Also note that, 

official leave/other holidays shall not be included in the calculation of leave 

Back to Index 

25 

 

 

  Leave can be availed with prior approval from the respective reporting manager by sending 
an  e-mail/  filling  up  leave  application  form.  All  the  employees  are  requested  to  plan  their 
leaves for the following month well in advance 

  Appropriate disciplinary action may be considered for employees who fail to resume office on 

the approved return date  

  Half day period should either be first 4 hours of the day or last 4 hours of the day. This will be 

adjusted against your leave balance 

  Leave can be accumulated maximum to the limit of 21 days. Any leave beyond 21 days by end 

of the calendar year will be lapsed and will not be carried forward 

  All employees are encouraged to take leaves in line with Client holidays, Client shut down etc.  
If the unauthorized absence prolongs beyond 5 continuous working days, it will be considered, 
 
as  voluntary  abandonment  of  services  &  necessary  action  will  be  initiated  including 
termination of services. The employee will not be eligible for any formal relieving from the 
company 

  All employees working at client sites will follow client’s leave calendar and are required to 
take  prior  approval  of  respective / designated  Client  Manager,  Client  HR and  also  Onward 
Manager. Leave application should clearly state the period of leaves and date of resuming the 
workplace. Approved planned leaves information for the next month to be submitted to the 
respective HR BPs on last working day of every month 

  All  unapproved  leaves  will  be  considered  as  “Leave  Without  Pay”,  irrespective  of  leave 

balance of an employee 

 

In  case  of  unplanned  leave/medical  leave/half  day  leave/late  coming  etc.  employees  are 
required to inform their respective Managers and local admin prior to their reporting time. In 
case of no information it will be considered as “Leave Without Pay” 

  Leaves cannot be en-cashed during the course of employment or at the time of separation 

and need to be utilized during your tenure with OeSL 

  Employees who have resigned and serving notice period, are not eligible for availing leave 
during notice period. Any leaves during the notice period will be considered as “Leave without 
Pay” and will lead to extension of notice period 

  Any negative leaves will be considered as “Loss of Pay” 

 

If an employee has worked on any of the holidays or on week-end, any leave adjustment will 
be subject to approval from BU Head & HR Head 

  Employees who are been offered a transfer to Onward group companies outside India on a long term 
assignment (Work Permit/H1/L1 Visas etc.), their last leave balance records in India are maintained. 
These leaves are credited back to the employees on transfer back to India i.e. after getting on rolls 
of Onward eServices  

 
 
 

Back to Index 

26 

 

 

4.5.2 Maternity Leave 
 
Who is Eligible? 
 
Women worked in the organization for a period of not less than 80 days in the 12 months preceding the 
date of expected delivery. 

 

An employee that is eligible for the Maternity Benefit Act of 1961 is not entitled to maternity benefit under 
the ESI Act of 1948. 
 

  Maternity leave is leave over and above earned leave & are paid leaves 

  This leave can be availed for a period of 26 weeks out of the 26 weeks, up to 8 weeks can be claimed 

before delivery however, you can also take the entire 26 weeks of leave after the delivery 

  Employees availing Maternity Leave should inform the reporting manager their intention to avail of 
leave 8 weeks prior to availing leave. Before proceeding on leave, a medical certificate should be 
submitted to HR department 

  Un-availed Maternity Leave cannot be en-cashed 

  On resuming work after leave, HR department should be informed 

  Any extension after maternity leave needs to be intimated to respective Manager and HR 

 

 Leave extension can be considered based on prior approval by reporting manager and HR only 

  Over and above maternity leaves extension will be considered as leave without pay 

  Maternity leaves can be availed for the first two children only 

 

(ii.a) Surrogacy/ Adoption leave 

  Employees entitled for paid leave for 12 weeks starting from the day the child is handed over to 

them. However, this may only be claimed if the child is below three months of age 

  Other leaves  

 

Leave for miscarriage / medical termination of pregnancy: 6 weeks paid leave immediately following 
the day of miscarriage or medical termination of pregnancy  

  Tubectomy: 2 weeks paid leave immediately following the day of the operation 

  Maternity  related  leave:  a  women  employee  suffering  from  any  illness  arising  out  of  pregnancy, 
delivery, premature child birth, miscarriage, medical termination of pregnancy or tubectomy, shall 
be entitled to paid leave up to 1 month 

 

  Nursing breaks 

  Two breaks of 15 minutes each till the child is 15 months old 

  Medical bonus 

Back to Index 

27 

 

 

 

INR 3,500/- if no pre / post-natal care is provided by the employer 

 

(ii.b) Crèche 

Crèche facility has been identified to support the employees, please connect with your respective HR BP for 
the details  

 
4.5.3 Paternity Leave 
 

  Paternity leave under this policy is a paid leave granted when an employee becomes father either 

at the birth of an employee’s own child or by adopting a child 

  Paternity leave is not charged against the employee’s leave credits, and the amount of paid days 

received up to 5 working days 

  The employee must provide prior notice to HR of the request for leave along with manager 

approval 
It is applicable up to 2 children 

 
  Temporary employees are not eligible for paternity leave 

 
 
4.6 Telephone, Computer and other Infrastructure Use 

 
 

 

Infrastructure facilities furnished at office premise and allotted to individuals are Onward's 
property intended for Business Use Only 
Infrastructure  Facilities  mainly  includes:  desktop  pc,  laptop  including  any  associated 
peripherals like printer, scanner, telephone, fax, network, wireless, email id, internet access, 
mobile  phone  service,  internet  data  services  for  laptop  users.  In  addition,  seating 
arrangement, A.C., pantry etc. are also part of facilities 

  Due care should be taken when using all facilities so that it does not cause any loss or damage 

 

to facilities in any way 
Internet  access  USB  devices  given  to 
limits  on  data 
usage.  Computer & Internet usage policy applies to individual connection users and laptop 
users also 

individual  has  restriction  or 

  Mobile service provided to employee may be restricted for voice communication only.  User 

should not activate data services without authorization / permission 

  Users are not allowed to install un-authorized software or download any data which is not 
required  for  business  purpose.   This  can  affect  system  performance  and  put  confidential 
information on risk 

  To  ensure  compliance  of  usage  policy  computer,  internet  access  and e-mail  usage  may  be 

monitored 

  Employees  should  not  use  password,  access  files  or  retrieve  any  stored  communication 
without  authorization.  Individual  should  access  and  use  information  for  which  they  are 
authorized 

Back to Index 

28 

 

 

  Employees who abuse this policy are subject to disciplinary procedures up to and including 

termination of services 

 

 

Electronic Communications with External Networks  

 
  Electronic communications from external networks into Onward Group’s network should be 
virus-free and in compliance with the licensing agreements or other agreements that permit 
access to external communication networks 

  The  Information  Technology  group  should  not  establish  access  to  external  communication 

networks without review 

  Downloading  or  transferring  of  electronic  file/data  from  a  non-Onward  source  should  be 

checked for viruses before use or further process 

  The  manager  of  Information  Technology  must  authorize usage  of an  individual/standalone 

modem (high-speed USB wireless internet cards) connection IN ADVANCE of its installation 

  

4.7 Internet Policy 
 
Internet is mainly used for data transfer to and from clients and for technical reference purposes. Internet 
access is given strictly based on reporting managers’ recommendations to IS department. In case of business 
needs, if access to any specific website/ URL is required, respective Managers need to recommend the same 
to the IS department for approval. Such access will be provided for a fixed time period only. 
 
It is strictly prohibited to: 
 

  Use the internet for any personal purposes 
  Use the internet to browse adult websites (This is a strict offense and can attract Disciplinary 

action) 

1.  Do’s 

  Plan your sessions and be specific in using the Internet (Unplanned sessions lead to 

 

exploration and consume bandwidth meant for official work) 
If documents of interest to a larger community are downloaded, make them 
available on servers accessible across the organization 

  Restrict Internet usage to visiting sites related to official work and/or professional 

interests related to official work 

  Close all Internet sessions immediately after usage 
  Pay attention to all security-related messages that pop up while using the Internet. 

In case of doubt about the meaning of the message, please get in touch with the 
system administrator instead of proceeding uninformed 

 
 

 
 

Back to Index 

29 

 

 

2.  Don’ts: 

  Use banned controversial sites 
  Download and distribute controversial, obscene material 
  Make large downloads without prior permission 
  Visit unsecured pages ignoring warnings 
  Participate in or initiate opinion polls and forums 
  Use File sharing programs 

 

 

4.8 Email policy 
 
All  messages  distributed  via  the  Company’s  or  Client’s  e-mail  system,  even  personal  emails,  are  the 
Company’s or the client’s property. Employees must have no expectation of privacy with regards to anything 
that he/ she creates, stores, sends or receives on the company’s or the client’s e-mail system. Employee’s 
emails  can  be  monitored  without  prior  notification  if  Company  or  client  deems  it  necessary.  If  there  is 
evidence that the employee is not adhering to the guidelines set out in this policy, the company reserves 
the  right  to  take  disciplinary  action,  including  termination  and/or  legal  action.  If  the  employee  has  any 
questions or comments about this E-mail Policy, please contact your Reporting Manager. 
 
 
Guidelines 
 
 

  Office 365 email cloud exchange is deployed for email operations 

  Employees can download the emails and other features/tools of Office 365 on their smartphones, 

however it will be their responsibility to maintain the confidentiality and security of the data 

 

Account Management:  

HR should send a request to IS department for Email ID creation. With information such as Employee Name, 
Employee Number, preferred Email ID (Based on availability IDs would be assigned). 

 

  By  default,  employee  cannot  send  mail  to  outside  ‘onwardgroup.com’  domain.  Prior  permission 

needed in case of any exception from respective BU Head and CISO 

Every employee is supposed to configure his outgoing email with a company specific signature 
The below mentioned disclaimer should be part of every outgoing email 
 
 
 
 
 

Back to Index 

30 

 

 

Disclaimer 
 
All OeSL email messages are expected to be appended with appropriate signature by every employee, along 
with the following disclaimer:  

 

“This  correspondence  may  contain  some  privileged  information.  If  you  are  not  the  intended  recipient  of  this  email  (including 
attachments if any) and have received the same in error: 1) Please do not retain any printed copy of this correspondence 2) Kindly 
delete the same from all your computers and 3) Please intimate us. We cannot be held responsible in any manner for any misuse 
of this correspondence”. 

 

 

Prohibited Use  

  Onward’s Email system shall not be used for the creation or distribution of any disruptive or offensive 
messages,  including  offensive  comments  about  race,  gender,  disabilities,  age,  sexual  orientation, 
pornography, religious beliefs and practice, political beliefs, or national origin 

  Employees  who  receive  any  emails  with  this  content  from  OeSL  employee  or  contractors  should 

report the matter to their supervisor immediately 

  Sending chain letters or joke emails from a Onward’s email account is prohibited 

  Posting messages in newsgroups using Onward’s email id is prohibited 

  Sending Mass Mails without prior consent of Program manager 

  Replying to unsolicited/spam mail is not allowed 

  Forward a message or copy a message or attachment belonging to another user without acquiring 

permission from the originator first 

  Forge  or  attempt  to forge  email  messages,  or  disguise  or  attempt  to  disguise  your  identity when 

sending mail 

  Set personal or Company e-mail accounts to be forwarded automatically to a Client e-mail account 

  Use any e-mail account other than an official Company or Client account for Company business 

 
 

4.9 Office Guidelines  
The Company strives to create and maintain a positive work environment; employees can help the Company 
to achieve these objectives by following these simple guidelines: 
 

  Be punctual at all times  

  Be at your workstation on time and ready to work  

  Take pride in the quality of your work 

  Devote your full care and attention to your job 

  Respect and care for company property  

Back to Index 

31 

 

  Respect the rights, privacy and property of others  

  Please maintain office decorum while in office premise 

 

  First impression is the last impression and we must dress to impress at all times  

  We all must do our part to ensure our place of business is clean and professional at all times 

  Encourage everyone speaking ONLY in English in the office 

  Employees are advised to keep their baggage, umbrellas, helmets, rain coats, travel jackets in the 

allocated locker room near the reception area 

  Please do not take food items or tea/coffee at your desk 

  Spitting “Gutkha” / throwing chewing gum etc. in toiletries and around premises is strictly prohibited 

  Security personnel are instructed to follow certain guidelines. Hence, employees are requested to 
co-operate with them on random frisking, checking, baggage storage, register entry etc. In case of 
any concern /queries, please speak with your respective reporting manger 

  Tea and coffee breaks: Tea and Coffee breaks are required & that’s why there is a cafeteria with the 
vending  machine  however  the  expectation  is  that  these  breaks  are  short  only  to  freshen  up 
yourselves & cannot be a chit chat or prolonged discussion sessions, also refrain from going for such 
breaks in large groups 

  Please support and co-ordinate / co-operate with admin function for smooth office operations 

 
 
4.10 Safety Policy 

 

The Company is firmly committed to the policy of enabling all work activities to be carried out safely, and 
with all possible measures taken to remove (or at least reduce) risks to the health, safety and welfare of its 
employees, contractors and authorized visitors. 
 
Responsibilities 

 

  Company: Will provide and maintain as far as possible: 

 
  A safe working environment safe systems of work 
  To  consult  and  co-operate  with  workers  in  all  matter  relating  to  health  and  safety  at 

workplace 
 

  Employees: Each employee has an obligation to: 

 
  Comply with safe work practices, with intent of avoiding injury to themselves and others and 

damage to workplace and equipment’s 

  Take reasonable care of the health and safety of themselves and others 
 

Back to Index 

32 

 

 

In spite of our efforts to ensure safe working conditions, if an employee meets with an accident 
or becomes seriously ill while on the job, it should be intimated to the Local Admin & Reporting 
Manager immediately.  

 
 
 
4.11 Workplace Security Policy  
 
The Company is committed to maintain a safe and secure workplace. In order to maintain a secure work 
environment,  the  company  strictly  prohibits  employees  and  visitors  from  bringing  any  CD,  Pen  Drive  or 
pirated software in the Company premises.  

 

In  addition,  all  visitors  are  required  to  register  the  details  of  the  electronic  data  systems  at  the 
reception/security check. 

 

 
 
4.12 Good Housekeeping 

 

Good  work  habits  and  a  neat  place  to  work  are  essential  for  job  safety  and  efficiency.  Employees  are 
expected to keep his or her place of work organized. Before departing for the evening, regardless of location 
(client location or the Company’s offices), employees should lock and/or secure all appropriate doors, files 
and cabinets and clear all sensitive or confidential work material from desk surfaces. The cooperation of 
everyone in keeping the offices, restrooms and kitchen facilities clean is expected. 

 
 

 
4.13 No-Smoking Policy  

 

Smoking is not allowed in the general office area at any time.  

 

Your cooperation is requested, as this policy must be rigidly enforced to comply with the company health 
and safety requirements of all the employees and to maintain proper insurance coverage for our offices. 
Additionally, chewing gum, pan masala/ gutkha and use of drugs are prohibited in office premises    

 
 

 
 
 

Back to Index 

33 

 

4.14 No-Drug abuse 

 

 

In order to provide safe and productive work environment, it is necessary to ensure that the work place is 
drug and alcohol free. This policy applies to all employees, contractors, and temporary workers. Substances 
covered  under  this  policy  include  alcohol,  illegal  drugs,  inhalants  etc.  OeSL  prohibits  any  usage  or 
consumption or being in possession of any drugs, alcohol or other substances that may have similar effects. 
No  employee  shall  enter  the  premises  of  the  Company  when  under  the  influence  of  Drug  or  alcohol  or 
similar substance. If any employee is found under such influence, disciplinary actions shall be taken against 
him/her which may include termination of services and/or prosecution for criminal conduct. 

 
 

4.15 Usage of Phones 

 
  Employee  workstation  phones are provided to  employees  only  for  official  communication. 

Any telephone calls made must be kept as brief as possible 

  Employee’s workstation telephones should not be used for personal telephone calls. In case 
it is observed that employee has used the telecom facility for personal use, an appropriate 
amount will be recovered from employee’s salary from immediate next payroll 

  The use of a personal cellular phone while at work may present a disruption or distraction to 

the user and/or nearby co-employees. Unless otherwise authorized, employees may use 
cellular phones while at work only for emergencies or during break or lunch times. During 
break or lunch times, employees shall use cellular phones only in places where such usage 
will not disrupt or disturb other employees 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Back to Index 

34 

 

 

 
 
 
5.1 Compensation Policy 
 
The company’s compensation policy is governed by the following principles as under:  
 

5. Compensation 

  Market Benchmarking: We will use as an input, data based on the industry market – trends, 
movement, and competition, how each of these affects us and the key things we need to do 
to accomplish our business goals. These in conjunction with our attrition data, hiring success 
and other relevant data from media, business orientation, etc. will be used to develop OeSL’s 
compensation strategy for the year 

  Performance Based Pay: The goal is to encourage all employees to achieve a higher level of 
performance. We believe that we need to drive and recognize higher performance. One of 
the ways we do this is paying relatively higher compensations to the employees who perform 
at  higher  levels.  OeSL  expects  all  employees  to  understand  this  and  help  effectively 
implement this by driving and evaluating performance more stringently 

  Parity: We want to ensure parity amongst employees performing at similar levels. This is done 
by  placing  such  employees  within  a  narrow  salary  range  of  each  other.  This  parity  is  also 
ensured  when  hiring  from  outside.  While  hiring  a  new  employee,  the  compensation  is 
compared to that of existing employee keeping in mind any change to the existing employee’s 
compensation in the immediate future. The comparisons are based on trends and not specific 
cases or outliers 

  Positioning:  The  compensation  plan  for  the  year  will  be  positioned by taking  into  account 
variety of factors as described above. HR, in consultation with senior management team, will 
work out the positioning for the year. The Compensation Management for the year will be 
based on individual performance reviews 
 
  The components of the compensation are broadly categorized as salary and benefits. The 
employee compensation is looked at from the perspective of an employee’s cost to the 
company and value to the employee 

  Employee  compensation  will  be  commensurate  with  his/her  qualification,  relevant 

experience, skills, competencies, and his/her performance on the job 

  It  is  expected  that  employees  maintain  absolute  confidentiality  with  respect  to  their 

compensation 

  It is not encouraged to give any salary advance to the employees hence employees are 

requested to refrain from requesting for the same 
 

For annual compensation review guidelines, kindly refer Performance Management Policy. 
 

Back to Index 

35 

 

 

5.2 Grades 
 
The grades are linked with role an individual play in organization in a particular year. Every year, based on 
performance and the role, the grades are reviewed and appropriate re-grading exercise is conducted 
wherever required and applicable. 

 

 
5.3 Compensation Break Up 

At OeSL, we consider CTC as per the break up defined below: 

CTC Break Up 

Fixed Compensation 

Retirals and Benefits 

Basic, HRA, Transport Allowance, LTA, Project Allowance, 
Monthly Deferred Bonus, City Compensatory Allowance, 
Car Allowance (Wherever Applicable) 
PF, Gratuity, ESIC, Mediclaim and Accidental Insurance 

Variable Compensation 

Work Performance Bonus, VC (Annual) 

ESOPs 

Employee Stock Options 
 

 
Note: Variable pay will be released on recommendations of Manager / Client / HOD. The same gets void in case 
employee quit or resigns from job. The payout of VC (Annual) is strictly on meeting performance parameters as 
defined in KRA’s. 

 
 

ESOPs 

  ESOPS  are  granted  to  the  employees  at  the  time  of  joining  the 
organisation or during their period of employment at the management’s 
discretion 

  ESOPS are allotted based on Management team recommendations, the 

Compensation  Committee  of  the  Board  of  Directors  (BoD)  decides  on  granting  ESOPs  based  on 
performance or potential to contribute in the future 

  The  Company  grants  the  ESOP’s  by  issuing  a  letter  with  the  number  of  options  granted,  vesting 

period and exercise price 

  An  employee  is  eligible  for  the  ESOP  scheme  only  during  the  employment  period  with  the 

organisation 

Back to Index 

36 

 

 

  We have created a portal for ESOP holders where they can exercise their options of buying shares 
is  mentioned  below 

the  current  status  of 

their  holdings.  The 

find  out 

and 
https://apps.linkintime.co.in/onward/frmLogin.aspx  

link 

  Please contact the company secretaries to know more about the ESOP portal. 

 
 
Statutory Contributions 
 
From the employees’ monthly earnings, the employee pays/contributes the following: 
 

Income Tax – if applicable 

  The employees’ contribution towards PF 
  Professional tax – if applicable 
 
  Employee State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) – if applicable 
  Maharashtra Labor Welfare Fund (MLWF) – if applicable 
  Tamilnadu Labor Welfare Fund (TNLWF) – if applicable 

 
Monthly Deferred Bonus 
 

  Monthly  Deferred  Bonus  will  be  paid  on  monthly  basis  under  the  head  –  “Monthly 

Deferred Bonus”, to the eligible employees as per Payment of Bonus act, 1965 

 
 
5.4 Provident Fund & Pension Scheme 
 
The Employees’ Provident Fund (EPF) Scheme is mandatory for all employees who meet one of the following 
conditions:   
 

1.  Whose monthly basic salary is up to Rs. 15000/- (Rupees Fifteen Thousand Only)  
2.  Who were members of the EPF scheme in their previous employment before joining OeSL 

 
Guidelines: 
 

  The Employer’s & Employee’s monthly contribution towards EPF is 12% of the employee’s 

Basic salary 

  Each member of the EPF is required to submit the PF Nomination Form for the purpose of EPF 

at the time of joining/ applying for membership of the EPF 

 

In  case  of  the  employees  whose  basic  wage  ceiling  is  more  than  Rs.15000/-  and  who  are 
exempted under EPF, such employees will have to fill up copy of PF Exemption Form (Form-
11) at the time of joining 

Back to Index 

37 

 

 

  While  separation,  the  employees  covered  under  EPF/EPS  need  to  visit  below  link  for  PF 

Withdrawal/Transfer:  https://unifiedportal-mem.epfindia.gov.in/memberinterface/ 

  Every employee  is  allocated  a  UAN  (Universal  Account Number) by the PF  Department  on 

becoming a member of the EPF/ EPS 

  The PF contribution is remitted to the Regional Provident Fund Commissioner, Thane as per 

the statutory requirements every month 

 
5.5 Gratuity 
 

  The  Company  has  framed  the  Gratuity  Scheme  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the 

Payment of Gratuity Act, 1965 to cover all the full time regular employees  

  The Company pays the contribution towards Gratuity based on the actual valuation of liability 

towards Gratuity 

  Gratuity is payable to employees whose total uninterrupted services with OeSL is 4 years and 

240 Days or more 

  The amount of Gratuity payable to employees is calculated on the basis of length of service 
and  last  drawn  monthly  basic  salary  of  the  employee  and  in  line  with  guidelines  as  set by 
authorized Service Providers who are assigned to maintain Gratuity policy for OeSL    

  The amount payable as Gratuity is exempted from income tax subject to the limits specified 

under the Income Tax Act and Rules 

  At the time of joining every employee is required to fill in a nomination form for the purpose 

of Gratuity 

 

 
5.6 Variable Compensation (Annual) 
 

•  This is a performance based variable salary component, the payout is based on the annual 

performance 

•  Please refer Variable Payout scheme for the respective year 

•  The payout is strictly on meeting performance parameters as defined in KRAs 

•  Variable pay will be released on recommendations of Manager / Client / HOD 

•  Variable pay gets void in case employee quit or resigns from job 

 
 
 
 

Back to Index 

38 

6. Benefits 

 

 

 

 

6.1 Group Mediclaim Insurance 
Policy 

  Every full time regular employee on the rolls of the company is covered under the Group Mediclaim 

Insurance  

  The Employee has the option to cover the dependent family (spouse + first 2 children) members 

under the Mediclaim hospitalization scheme 

  The  coverage  under  the  scheme  ceases  once  the  employee  is  relieved  from  the  services  of  the 

company either by resignation, retirement, termination 

  The  extent  of  the  coverage  is  as  follows:  (40%  borne  by  employee  and  60%  borne  by employer) 

 

 

Grade 

Amount Covered 

Individual 
Contribution 

E3, E4, M3 & M4 

E5,E6  

INR 7,00,000  
INR 3,00,000 

INR 500/- month 
INR 175/- month 

Policy Terms 

Applicability 

Star Health and Allied Insurance Company Ltd. 
Star Health and Allied Insurance Company Ltd. 
Grade wise  
Self + Spouse +  2 Dependent Children (up to 21 age) 
Covered For All Members 

Insurance Company 
Third Party Administrator 
Sum Insured  
Family Members Covered 
Pre Existing Ailments 
30 Days Waiting Period For Non 
Accidental Claims 
1  Year Exclusion Of 9 Specified Disease  Waived Off 
Cashless Facility 
Pre & Post Hospitalization  

Waived Off 

Maternity Coverage 

New Born Baby 

9 Months for Maternity 

Room Rent 

Emergency Ambulance Charges 

Yes, in network hospitals of TPA 
30 & 60 Days Respectively (Except Maternity) 
Covered for Normal & C- Section Delivery: Rs. 50,000/- (for first 
2 children) 
Covered from Day One.  
(Employee has to give new born baby data to HR within 10 days) 
Waived Off for All. 
1% of Sum Insured  for Normal  &  2% of SI for ICU 
If insured is admitted in a higher category, then insured will bear 
difference of all medical expenses as in final hospital bill in same 
proportion. 
Rs.2,000 per case / per hospitalisation  
(Ambulance charges will be covered only if the main 
hospitalization claim is approved.)   

Back to Index 

39 

 

 

 

  All Policy related communication needs to be sent to the respective HR BP 

  Employee contribution is subject to change post renewal effective April 2020 

 
Procedure 

  The employee is required to make a declaration about the coverage of dependent family members 

at the time of joining  

  Additions/deletions are to be intimated to HR immediately by the employee as appropriate 

  The Employee/Relatives are required to intimate HR within 24 hours in case of any hospitalization 

 

  Corporate Group Mediclaim Policy will cover only employees whose monthly Gross salary is 

more than Rs. 21000/-. The coverage under the scheme ceases once the employee is 
relieved from the services of the company either by resignation, retirement, termination 

  The coverage under the scheme ceases once the employee is  relieved from the services of 

the company either by resignation, retirement, termination 

  Mediclaim E - cards can be downloaded from the following link: 

Link:- https://portal.starhealth.in/Agent/NewGen/GenerateIdCard.aspx 

For that use Policy No, employee ID and DOB 

 
  Policy no: P/151100/01/2019/000013 

 
For intimation of hospitalization/For Claims / Emergency assistance from Alliance Insurance: 

  Mr. Sachin Dadaso Chavan 

  Mob: + 91 8108335854 Email: Sachin@allianceinsurance.in 

 

  Mr. Nitin Kumar 

 Mob: + 91 7447755331 Email: nitinkumar@allianceinsurance.in 

  Mr. Hemant Hiray 

 Mob: + 91 9167950045 Email: hiray.hemant@allianceinsurance.in 
 

You can avail the cashless benefit in your nearby Star Network hospital. Below is the link for your 
reference. 
 
                                 Link:- https://www.starhealth.in/network-hospitals 
 
Cashless Procedure 
 

1.       You need to carry your E medical card while entering to the any of network hospital 
2.       Kindly bring any of Photo ID proof 
3.     Hospital will provide you the pre auth form 
4.     Please fill the form and submit to them 
 

Back to Index 

40 

 

 

6.2 ESIC 

 

COVERAGE OF EMPLOYEES: Drawing wages up to Rs. 21000/- per month 
 
RATE OF CONTRIBUTION OF THE WAGES. 

Total 

  : 4 % 

Employers  : 3.25 %  

Employees  : 0.75 % 

 

 

 

 

•  Medical Benefits: Under the scheme, the insured person gets primarily, three types of medical help.  

1. Outpatient medical care through dispensaries set up in various centers 
2. Laboratory and testing expenses 
3.  Hospitalization  charges.  The  scheme  provides  the  following  benefits  to  more  than  80  lacs 
insured  employee  household  through  an  extensive  network  of  offices  situated  in  over  550 
centers throughout the country 

  Medical Benefit – for self & Family 
 

•  Sickness Benefits: About half wages up to 90 days sickness. 

  Sickness Benefit – for self 

 

  Maternity Benefits: Maternity Benefit is payable to an Insured Woman in the following cases subject 

to contributory conditions: - 

1.  Confinement-payable for a period of 12 weeks (84 days) 
2.  Miscarriage or Medical Termination of Pregnancy (MTP)-payable for 26 weeks (182 

days) from the date following miscarriage 

3.  Sickness arising out of Pregnancy, Confinement, Premature birth-payable for a period 

not exceeding one month 

4.  In the event of the death of the Insured Woman during confinement leaving behind a 

child, Maternity Benefit is payable to her nominee 

5.  Maternity benefit rate is 100% of average daily wages 

  Maternity Benefit - for self 

 

•  Dependents’ Benefits: If a person dies from employment injuries his widow and children are 

entitled to compensation to be paid in a certain ratio, (e.g. The widow till her remarriage, the son 
up to 18 years of age, the daughter up to 18 years of age or marriage whichever is earlier. 
 

•  Funeral benefits: When an insured person dies, the eldest member of the family or other 

dependent or friends as the case may be, is entitled to receive Rs.10000 towards funeral expenses. 
The amount should be claimed within three months of the death. 

Back to Index 

41 

 

 

6.3 Group Personal Accident Insurance 
 
Policy 
In addition to the above, all the employees are covered under Personal Accident Policy as follows: 
 

Grade 

M1 & M2 
M3 & E3  
E4 & M4  
E5, E6 & SP 

Amount Covered 

INR 25,00,000 
INR 15,00,000 
INR 7,50,000 
INR 3,00,000 

 

  While claiming damages under Personal accident policy, a formal police complaint is a must 

 

If the employee is partially disabled for short period, he/ she can claim damages under this policy 

  The Employee/Relatives are required to intimate HR within 24 hours in case of any accident 

  On reporting for work, the employee is required to submit all the documents in originals related to 

the accident   

 

  The Employee/Relatives are required to intimate HR within 24 hours in case of any accident 

  On  reporting  for  work,  the  employee  is  required  to  submit  all  the  documents  in  originals 

related to the accident   

 

6.4 Parental insurance Program  
 
Parental  Insurance  Program  provides  Mediclaim  coverage  to  the  parents  (own  /  in-laws)  of  OeSL 
employees.  This  is  an optional  benefit  where the  employee has  an  option  to take medical  insurance for 
his/her parents or parent in laws from with sum assured of Rs. 1 lac to Rs. 5 lacs (depending on the option 
he/she opts for). The benefit of this scheme is that there is no age limit for the parents insured & there is 
no pre medical health check required. 
Policy Premium & Terms:  
 
 

Premium Amount 

 

Option 1 
Option 2 
Option 3 
Option 4 
Option 5 

Sum Insured 

(Floater) 
1,00,000 
2,00,000 
3,00,000 
4,00,000 
5,00,000 

Yearly 

15,014 
19,635 
23,562 
29,453 
44,898 

EMI Amount (Recovered in 3 

Months) 

5,005 
6,545 
7,854 
9,818 
14,966 

Back to Index 

42 

 

 

  The amount mentioned above is applicable for 02 dependents (mother + father), only one set of      

parents (Mother & Father or Mother in Law and Father in Law) are entitled for the above mentioned 
policy 

 

In case of single parent, (either Mother or Father) the premium amount would remain the same 

  Employees can opt from any of the above options 

  The  company  would  reserve  the  right  to  opt  for  the  group  policy  for  parents  based  on  the 

nominations received 

 

 In case of any query please contact your respective HR BP. 
 

 

6.5 Travel Policy 
 
Employees  traveling  overseas  for  business  purpose  for  a  short  duration  will  be  paid  Food  &  Telephone 
allowance as per the Allowance Policy. The hotel accommodation will be paid by the organization directly. 

  

All business expenses of the overseas travel of the employee will be borne by the company. It is mandatory 
for the employees to preserve the bills and submit at the time of settling the advance within 7 days of return 
to base location.  
 
Employees deputed at Onward overseas branches will be given salary advance according to the local 
policy of that location. 

Local Travel  

The Local Travel Policy is formulated for reimbursements of employee expenses during official 
travel.  
 
  Local Travel Policy is not applicable for travel from residence to office & back 
  Local  Travel  Expenses  to  client’s  location  where  employee  is  based  full  time  are  not 

reimbursable. In these cases, Client Location will be termed as Base Office Location 

  Employees who are a part of the Corporate Car Scheme are required to use the car for all local 

travel 

  The reimbursement amounts will be based on Project / Location and are subject to approval 

from Reporting Manager 

 
 

All India Travel  

This policy is a General Travel Policy applicable for all employees. However, each Project will have a separate 
policy depending on the Project requirements, which will be communicated to employees by the Project 
Head/BU Head.  

Back to Index 

43 

 

 

  The General Travel Policy is only for overnight stay/travel & not applicable for daily commute 
  All  employees  in  Grade  E4/M4  who  are  required  to  travel  daily  will  be  reimbursed  for 

food/travel on actual only (with bills) with a max cap of Rs. 700 

  All  employees  in  Grade  E5  &  E6  who  are  required  to  travel  daily  will  be  reimbursed  for 

food/travel on actual (with bills) only with a max cap of Rs. 450  

  All expenses for accommodation/food as per policy require necessary detailed supporting for 

reimbursement  

  All  vouchers/expense  claims  need  to  be  submitted  within  max  30  days  from  the  date  of 
incurring the expense for clearance. All expense claims post 30 days will not be eligible for 
reimbursement 
 

M2 & Above 

E4 / M4 & Above 

E5 / E6 

Class of 
Cities 

With Supporting 

With Supporting 

With Supporting 

Accommodation 

A 
B 
C 

6500 
5500 
4500 

Per 
Diem 

1000 
800 
600 

Accommodation 

5500 
4500 
3500 

Per 
Diem 

800 
600 
400 

Accommodation 

4500 
3500 
2500 

Per 
Diem 

500 
400 
200 

 
 

  On twin sharing basis (Accommodation entitlements are maximum limits)  

 

Classification of Cities: 

 
'A' Class cities: Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Kolkata & Bangalore 
 
'B' Class cities: Ahmedabad, Baroda, Bhubaneswar, Cochin, Coimbatore, Chandigarh, Ghaziabad, 
Guwahati,  Hyderabad,  Indore,  Jodhpur,  Lucknow,  Nagpur,  Patna,  Pondicherry,  Pune,  Ranchi, 
Raipur, Surat, Trivandrum, Vizag. 
 
'C' Class Cities: All cities not covered above are classified under this. 
 
Tour reports should be submitted to the admin department within 7 days of return from the tour 
after approval from the reporting manager. The employee will not be eligible to claim the tour 
expense if not claimed within 7 days after the tour. Please get in touch with the Local/Branch 
Administration Department for related queries.   
 
Voucher Submission: Vouchers need to be submitted within a month of Travel/expense incurred 
to the admin department with approval from reporting manager. As per policy, vouchers would 

Back to Index 

44 

 

not be reimbursed if the claims are delayed by more than a month. All supporting’s/bills must be 
attached  with  vouchers.  Vouchers  submitted  before  15th  of  the  month  will  be  considered  for 
payout with 21st of same month. Else will be moved to next month voucher payout cycle. 
 
Voucher Payment: Voucher payment will be processed on 21st of every month. Vouchers which 
are approved by all authorities will processed for payout. 
 

 

 

6.6 Business Travel Partner: Uber 

 
Uber for Business is our preferred mode of car transport for domestic & intercity travel (Mumbai/ Pune) 
which also includes client meetings within cities. 
Every employee is eligible to opt for Uber for Business and can utilize the benefits. 
 
 
Highlights of benefits: 
 

1.  Peak Price protection always (especially applicable while travelling during peak hours) 
2.  Zero cancellation fees 
3.  Top rated drivers (4.75 and above) 
4.  Priority support 

 
For enrolment, please contact respective HRBP. 
 

 

6.7 Corporate Credit Card Policy 
 
The company provides employee with corporate credit card to be used for business-related expenses. This 
helps employees to manage their official expenses and make payments more efficiently. This policy applies 
to all employees who are eligible to use a corporate credit card. It also applies to employees who have the 
right to approve the use of corporate card for their team members. You can consult this policy every time 
you need more information about the use of corporate credit card. 
 

Eligibility criteria  

 

Criteria A 
Criteria B 

Criteria C  

Vice President & Above  
Role Based:  Extensive Travelling/ 
Customer Engagement. ( Sales & 
delivery) 
Support Role – Purchases/ Admin 

Back to Index 

45 

 

 

 
Expenses allowed on a corporate credit card  
 
Employees should use a corporate card to pay for work-related expenses only.  

 

Card holder responsibilities 
 
If you have a corporate credit card, we expect you to: 

  Protect it to the best of your ability. Don’t leave it unattended or give it to unauthorized people (e.g. 

friends, family, and colleagues).  

  Report it stolen or lost as soon as possible. In case of theft or the card getting misplaced employee must 

block the card immediately and inform the Accounts / HR department. 

  Card being used for personal or unapproved cases the employee will be expected to settle the money 

either through salary or by refunding amount to the accounts department. 

Guidelines:  
 
Employees are expected to provide supporting documents wherever is necessary (receipts of the expenses 
incurred along with credit card statement). In case of online transaction (Linked - in subscription, Uber 
expenses, etc. the statement alone will be sufficient) 
Please note that the corporate credit card is a company property and company reserve the rights to 
monitor charges and withdraw on its discretion. 
 
 
6.8 Technical Certification 

 

The organisation encourages employees to go in for Technical Certifications relevant to their employment. 
Employees who clear such technical certifications are reimbursed the fee / cost of such technical 
certification. However, to claim such reimbursement the employee should be a confirmed employee, has 
taken prior written approval from BU Head and also from HR head, and he/she should have scored more 
than 80%. On availing the reimbursement, the employee will have to sign minimum 1 year service 
agreement with the company. In case an employee resigns/absconds and his/her LWD with the company 
is before completion of defined period, he/she is liable to repay in full cost / fee of certification. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Back to Index 

46 

 

6.9 Mobile Connection Policy 
 

Eligibility: 

 

 

  Employees who are required to communicate with clients, vendors for official purpose are eligible for 

mobile connection, subject to approval by BU Head 

Process: 
  

  Company will provide the SIM card and will take care of the monthly bill payment directly to the service 

provider as per the guidelines 

 

In  case  employee  is  using  his/her  personal  SIM  card  for  official  purpose  he/  she  can  claim  the 
reimbursement  through cash  reimbursement  voucher  subject  to  approval  from  BU  head  (employees 
may be asked to support it with the billing document) as per the below mentioned table  

  Employee needs to use their personal Hand Set 

  For SIM Card, activation of internet / email plan, employee needs to send a request to the respective 
HR BP who in turn will check with the respective Managers and also process the request further for the 
BU Head’s approval. Administration department will issue the SIM card subject to approval from BU 
Heads 

 

ISD  facility  activation  will  be  done  only  for  those  employees  who  need  to  use  the  facility  for  client 
interactions and only after approval by BU Heads 

  High usage beyond the limit specified will be recovered from the employee’s salary. 

 

Usage: 

 Based on Business requirement and quantum of use, classification is in three categories as below:  

 
 

Grades 
E5 & E6 
E4, M4 & Above 
M2 & Above 

Amount to be reimbursed (in INR) 
Up to Rs. 300/- 
Up to Rs. 500/- 
Up to Rs. 1200/- 

 

  Employees are expected to judicially use the mobile for official purpose only. In case of bill exceeding 
the above amounts (due to phone calls, internet usage etc.), employees will have to bear the cost and 
excess amount will be recovered from the respective employee’s salary with immediate next payroll 

In cases wherein employee is required to make international business calls from his/her personal phone 
due to emergency, an appropriate reimbursement of the same will be considered only after approval 
from  respective Manager  and  BU  Head  and  also  in  such  scenario,  employee  is  requested  to provide 
relevant supporting documents specifying call details, duration, charges etc. 

 

 

Back to Index 

47 

 

 

 

6.10 Long Service Award 
 
Onward upholds its tradition of recognizing the invaluable contribution made by its employees through the 
Long Service Awards. The milestones for this long service recognition are completion of 5 years/10 years/15 
years/20 years of continuous service.  
 
Guidelines 

  For the purpose of computation of service, all sanctioned and paid leave will be reckoned as 

continuous service  

  Deputation  on  to  any  group  companies  (Onward  Technologies  Inc.,  Onward  Technologies 

GmbH, Onward Technologies Limited, UK) will be considered as continuous service  

  Long Service Award will be subject to Income Tax rules 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

Back to Index 

 

48 

 

7.1 Payroll Process 
 
Guidelines 
 

7. Payroll 

 

 

  Payroll is processed by the payroll team – using in-house payroll system  
  For inputs regards to Attendance Data – specific cut off dates are communicated by email on 
monthly basis to respective Managers and these specific dates are strictly followed and no 
inputs after these dates are considered for Payroll 

  Payroll/ Attendance inputs are shared by the respective reporting managers by 25th (Cutoff 
date) of every month. In case of any delays in inputs received, the same will be considered in 
subsequent month’s payroll 

  For  the  Employees  joining  after  25th  of  the  month,  their  salary  will  be  processed  in  the 

subsequent month 

  From  the  employees’  monthly  gross  earnings  Tax  &  relevant  statutory  deductions  as 

applicable will be deducted. The salary deductions will be itemized on employee’s pay slip. 

    Salary will be deposited in the account details given by employees 
  On monthly basis, payroll team releases the Monthly Salary Slips and Tax Plans 
 

In case of any queries on salary payout – employees are required to contact HR BPs before 
10th of every month.  

  Employee are expected to declare their investments (to be considered for Tax computation) 
in April every year or immediately within one week after joining (for new joiner joining in a 
particular  Financial  Year).  In  case  of  any  amendments  in  the  investments,  employees  are 
immediately required to inform Payroll Team via an email 

  Payroll team will send across communication about investment proof submission by end of 

calendar year 

  Form  16  for  a  particular  financial  year  is  distributed  during  the  month  of  June  in  the 
subsequent financial year. Payroll team will send across communication with regards to same. 
 

  Employees salary will be put on hold for the following reasons: 

  Joining Formalities not completed 
  Indiscipline, misconduct, unplanned leaves, non-performance 
  Late submission of attendance 

 

  Salary put On Hold shall be released  on 15th of the month after a confirmation is received 

from the Project Manager. 
 

Back to Index 

49 

 

 

 

8. Performance Management System 

 

8.1 Performance Management System 
 
Performance review is one of the most important tools to recognize and improve the contributions and 
skills  of  the  individuals  who  contribute  to  the  success  of  our  organization.  Performance  Management  is 
intended to be an ongoing process of communication between the manager and the employee, focused on 
helping the employee achieve his/her best workplace results.  
 
The underlying principles that guide the Performance Management System at OeSL are:  
 

  Performance Management is a shared commitment to high performance 
  Performance  Management  balances  autonomy  and  accountability  at  the  individual  and 

organizational levels 

  Delivering performance and continuous learning are encouraged and supported  
 

 

Objective Setting 
 

  Upfront identification of Key Result Areas (KRAs) for an individual is extremely important. This 
helps  individuals  and  teams  focus  on  activities  that  are  aligned  to  their  project  and 
organizational goals. Individuals are also clear as to what their performance will be measured 
against 

  For new employees, the objectives are set within a month from the date of joining 
  There are two type of objectives that will be defined for all the employees according to the 

levels in the organization structure 

  Organizational objectives 
  Business unit objectives 
  The objectives are finalized after they are discussed between the Manager and Employee 
  Objectives are grouped by KRAs and weightage is assigned to each KRA 
  Performance against the set objectives is evaluated during the quarterly review and annual 

 

appraisal cycle, and ratings are given 
It  is  the  responsibility  of  every  employee  to  ensure  that  his/her  objectives  are  set  in 
consultation with the manager 

  Objectives  can  be  changed  during  the  year  after  every  quarter  to  reflect  change  in  reality 

(things like business needs, project change, etc.). 

 
 
 

Back to Index 

50 

 

Guidelines 
 

 

  The annual performance review of all employees is based on performance and the evaluation 
period  will  be  between  1st  April  to  31st  March.  Employee’s  first  appraisal  is  done  after 
completion of one year with the company.  The subsequent appraisals will be done effective 
1st April. 

  Example: Employee, whose date of joining is 1st November 2018 will be eligible for 
an anniversary appraisal on 1st November, 2019.  Subsequent appraisal will be done on a 
pro-rata basis (a period of 5months) on 1st April, 2020 and so on every year on 1 April. 

  The Company will review employee’s performance in every twelve (12) months and also at 
periodic  intervals.    The  evaluation  may  consist  of,  but  is  not  to,  a  personal  interview  / 
performance dialogue during which an employee's performance, strengths and weaknesses 
in his or her job are discussed and evaluated and recommendations for improvements are 
conveyed. These interviews / performance dialogues may also identify the short and long-
range goals of employees and determine how they interrelate with the Company's purpose 
and objectives 

  Any recommendations for promotion, a change of duties, or change in compensation must 

be approved by an employee’s Supervisor and the BU Head 

  A performance evaluation does not necessarily mean a change in compensation or duties, all 

of which are at the Company’s sole discretion 

  The appraisal process is initiated by Human Resources one month prior to appraisal eligible 
month of an employee with an objective to provide sufficient time for performance review to 
Employee and Manager 

  The  review  process,  ratings,  compensation  revision  recommendation  (if  applicable), 
promotion recommendations (if applicable) and approvals from  BU Head is required to be 
completed at least 10 days prior to the appraisal eligible month of an employee  

  Compensation  revision  (if  applicable)  is  considered  effective  1st  date  of  appraisal  eligible 

month of an employee, subject to completion all processes in advance as mentioned above 

  For  employees  working  at  Onsite  client  locations  the  date  of  performance  evaluation, 
compensation revision is strictly based on commercial contract terms with client and subject 
to approval / recommendations by the client Managers, Onward Managers and BU Head 

In no scenario, backdating of letters is permitted 

 
  Salary Revision Letters issued to the employees after approval will be directly considered for 

 

payroll. 

 

Back to Index 

51 

 

 

 

 

9. Disciplinary Policy 

9.1 Disciplinary Action 
 
To  inculcate  a  performance  oriented  culture  in  the  organization  and  to  inculcate  discipline  in  the 
organization  and  take  action  against  the  defaulters,  action  may  be  initiated  under  the  following 
circumstances: absenteeism, security breach, consistent poor performance, and all other acts mentioned 
under model standing orders applicable to OeSL. 

 

In case of absenteeism 
 

 

If an employee remains absent for more than 5 consecutive days without any prior approval 
or information, disciplinary action will be initiated 

  Reporting Manager to review and authenticate the information and the reason of absence 

with the employee 
If the employee doesn’t report/ contact HR or reporting Manager within the stipulated 
period of time, HR will refer the case to Legal department for necessary action 

 

 

In case of Security breach: 

  The misconduct is reported by IS to HR and the Reporting Manager  
  Management conducts preliminary enquiry in presence of the employee and his Manager as 

per policy 

  Employee’s view point is heard to avoid any bias based on the severity of the misconduct 

appropriate disciplinary action will be taken, which could be as severe as termination of 
employment with immediate effect 

 

In case of consistent poor work performance:  

  The Reporting Manager informs HR about the poor performance of an employee.  
  The employee shall be given a verbal and written warning along with a review period and 

made aware of his/her areas of improvement. 

      The discussion must take place in the presence of the employee, the Manager, HR BP and HR 

 

representative. Employee’s point of view is also heard to avoid any bias 
If there is no positive improvement at the end of the review period, the employee’s services 
are terminated with immediate effect. 

  Accordingly, the employee is given his/her termination letter by HR 
 

 

 

In  case  of  misconduct of  any  nature or breach  of  any of  the  employment terms,  company 
reserves the right to terminate services with immediate effect. 
In case of Termination of services, no notice period will be applicable 

Note: 

 

Back to Index 

52 

 

 

9.2 Unacceptable Activities 
 
Generally speaking, we expect each person to act in a mature and responsible way at all times. If you have 
any questions concerning any work or safety rule, or any of the unacceptable activities listed below, please 
see your Reporting Manager or respective HR BPs for clarification 

 

Note that the following list of Unacceptable Activities does not include all types of conduct that can result 
in disciplinary action, up to and including termination 
 

  Negligence or any careless action which endangers the life or safety of another person 
  Violation of any company rule, any action that is detrimental to the Company's development 
  Unauthorized possession of dangerous or illegal firearms, weapons or explosives on 

company property or while on duty 

  Engaging in criminal conduct or acts of violence, or making threats of violence towards 

anyone on company premises or when representing the Company, fighting, or provoking a 
fight on company property, or negligent damage of property 
Insubordination or refusing to obey instructions properly issued by your respective reporting 
Manager pertaining to your work, refusal to help out on a special assignment 

 

  Threatening, intimidating or coercing fellow employees on or off the premises at any time, 

for any purpose 

  Dishonesty; falsification or misrepresentation on your application for employment or other 
work records; lying about sick or personal leave; falsifying reason for a leave of absence or 
other data requested by the Company: alteration of company records or other company 
documents 

  Spreading malicious gossip and/or rumors; engaging in behavior which creates discord and 
lack of harmony; interfering with another employee on the job; restricting work output or 
encouraging others to do the same 

  Unsatisfactory or careless work; failure to meet deliverables or quality standards as 

explained to you by your Department Head / Team Leader 

  Sleeping or loitering during working hours 
  Creating or contributing to unsanitary conditions 

 

9.3 Anti-Harassment & POSH (Prevention of Sexual Harassment) 
 
The Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 covers 
all organizations and workplaces including but not limited to government, public, private, non-
government, educational and domestic workplaces, hospitals, stadia or any location visited by the 
employees 
 

Back to Index 

53 

 

 

•  Sexual harassment is defined as unwelcome verbal, visual, or physical conduct of a sexual nature 

that is severe or pervasive and affects working conditions or creates a hostile work environment. It 
includes unwelcome sexual behavior of direct or implied nature such as: 

•  Physical contact & advances 
•  Request for sexual favours 
• 

Sexually colored remarks 
Showing pornography &  

• 
•  unwelcome physical, verbal or non-verbal sexual conduct 

• 

If the complainant had welcomed the respondent’s conduct, the incident cannot fall under sexual 
harassment  

•  Sexual harassment at the workplace is against the law and will not be tolerated. OeSL is committed 
to providing and maintaining a work environment that is free of harassment based on gender, race, 
religion, national origin, age, sexual orientation or other protected classifications 

•  Harassment may take different forms, and may involve, but is not limited to, visual displays, 

suggestive remarks, jokes, gestures, sexual demand, emails, propositions, or unwanted physical 
contact 

•  The policy comprises of any type of harassment done by employees, client employees, service 

professionals, contract resources, vendors, service providers 

•  Each individual has the right to work in a professional atmosphere that promotes equal 

employment opportunities and prohibits discriminatory practices, including harassment. Therefore, 
OeSL expects that all relationships among persons in the workplace will be free of bias, prejudice 
and harassment. Whatever form the harassment takes, the Company will not permit any employee 
to harass others with whom he/she has business interactions including but not limited to other 
employees, visitors and vendors, or permit any outsider to harass its employees. This is true, not 
only in the workplace, but during business trips and business-related social events. All employees 
must comply with this policy and take appropriate measures to ensure that such conduct does not 
occur 

•  An employee who believes that he/she has experienced or observed harassment (sexual or any 

other discriminatory harassment) should confidentially report the incident immediately (within 24 
hours of the incident) to Compliance department. Although reports could be made verbally, but 
employees are strongly encouraged to make all such reports in writing, since it will assist in the 
investigation process  

•  To deal with and control the incidences of sexual harassment, a POSH committee exist, in line with 

prescribe norms 

•  Compliance department / committee shall promptly and thoroughly investigate all reports of 

harassment as discreetly and confidentially as possible. However, investigation of such complaint 
will generally require disclosure to the accused individual/’s. The goal is to conduct a thorough 
investigation, to determine whether harassment has occurred and to eliminate any hostile or 
offensive working condition and decide actions to take against the offending individual(s) 

 

If Compliance department / committee determines that a violation of this policy has occurred, it 
will take appropriate disciplinary action after due consultation with BU Head which can include 
counseling, warning, suspension, penalties or any action up to and including termination of 
employment. Compliance to this policy is a condition of each employee’s employment 

Back to Index 

54 

 

 

The following is an illustrative (but not exhaustive) list 

•  Any form of pressure for sexual activity 
•  Unwanted sexual advances  
•  Use of sexual innuendoes  
•  Physical aggression, assault  
•  Unwelcome/ Unpleasant touching, hugging, patting or pinching  
•  Continuous taunting  
Intentional disturbance by making noise  
• 
•  Verbal sexual abuse disguised as humor  
•  Display of sexually explicit pictures, pornography, cartoons, graffiti, drawings  
•  Repeated references to various parts of the body at inappropriate times  
•  Request for dates when the other person has made it clear that she or he is not interested  
•  Constant sexual joking  
•  Sexist language  
•  Unwelcome whistling or any other suggestive gestures or remarks  
•  Making of express or implied promises, rewards or benefits for complying with sexual favors or 

making threats, reprisals or denial of opportunity for refusal to so comply 

 
Responsibilities of Employees  

  To report the instances of harassment to the Reporting Manager/ BU Head/HR 

  To cooperate in the cases of investigation  

  To abide by the directions given by BU Head / Reporting Managers/HR 

  Not to use this policy to make frivolous or malicious charges against fellow employees  

 
Responsibilities of the Manager  

  To create awareness of this policy in their divisions and projects  

  To encourage the employees in their divisions and projects to report the instances of harassment, 

if any  

  To refer to the Compliance Department about the cases of harassment  

 
Responsibilities of the Committee / HR/BU Head/Grievance Cell  

  To set up the procedure for redressal of the complaints reported 

  To conduct independent investigation of the cases of the harassment reported  

  To bring formal or informal resolution of the complaints reported  

  To take the necessary disciplinary action against the employees  

 
 
 
 

Back to Index 

55 

 

9.4 Whistleblower Policy 
 

 

Whistle-blower policy refers to the person or a group of people who wish(es) to “blow the whistle” or 
“Raise the Voice” against anything which is not Right or not legal or ethical.  It may be against person, 
employer, business, system, process and procedure within the organization or outside the organization. 

 

 The protection to the whistleblower is provided under 2 areas:  

1.  The whistle blower confidentiality shall be maintained 

2.  The identity of whistleblower is kept confidential except for the reason that they are required to be 

shared as per the demand of investigation or laws. 

 

Whistle blower should communicate the issue by witting an email to the following  
DL: whistleblower@onwardgroup.com.  
 
Proper  investigation  will  be  carried  out  by the whistle blower  committee  and  appropriate action  will  be 
taken. 
 
 
 
 

10. Separation 

 

10.1 Separation Policy 
 
Objective: 
 
The objective of this policy is to provide guidelines and procedures with respect to employees separating 
from the services of the Company. 
 
Separation Types (Definition): 

 

OeSL has a policy which allows employee to separate himself/herself from the company in the following 
ways: 
 

 

 

Retirement:  the  age  of  retirement  for  all  the  employees  is  58  years.  Any  employee 
attaining the age of 58 years shall retire on the last day of the month in which he/she 
reaches  the  age  of  superannuation.  No  exception  can  be  provided.  However,  if  the 
company wishes to extend it with mutual consent, then it will be on contract. 

Resignation:  a  formal  written  notice  from  the  employee  through  mail  or  on  paper  to 
inform the separation from company services. 

Back to Index 

56 

 

 

 

Termination: Severing of contract of employment by company. 

 

 
Separation through Retirement 

 
Retirement Notice: An employee who is due for retirement will be given Notice of Retirement at 
least 3 months in advance. This will enable employee to avail his / her leave balance, if any, before 
the date of retirement. 
Benefits: An employee who retires will enjoy benefits such as Provident Fund, Gratuity etc. as per 
the rules for full and final settlement. 

 
Separation through Resignation 

 

a. Normal Resignation 

 

It is mandatory for all employees to serve notice period as per their grades / levels mentioned 
below.  Company  expects  employees  to  serve  notice  period  and  doesn’t  encourage  giving 
payment in lieu of Notice Period 

  Notice period shall be waived off / extended based on project need and at the sole discretion 
of the BU Head. OeSL Management Team will have the right to override all the contractual 
terms mentioned in offer letter / appointment letter / Deputation letter/ Employee Handbook 
  * Important Note: Notice period waiver decision is at the discretion of OeSL management. 
If  required,  the  management  reserves  the  right  to  knock  off  notice  period  waiver. 
Comparisons/precedence's should neither be quoted, nor will be entertained 

 

Below are the grade/levels for your reference: 

 

Grade/ Level 

Mandatory Advance Notice (in months*) 

E6 
E5 

E3/E4/M2/M3/M4 

30 days 
60 days 
90 days 

 
 *Note: Notice period for the Employees who are working at client location on critical projects will vary depending 
on the criticality of the project.  The notice period date will be decided based on the customer release date. 

 

  Employee who wishes to separate, should put his / her resignation through email or submit 
hard  copy.  Reporting  Manager  /  Supervisor  can  grant  acceptance  of  resignation.  No 
commitments  shall  be  made  verbally  to  an  employee  who  has  resigned.    A  resignation 
acceptance email/ hardcopy to the employee & HR must accompany the letter of resignation 
from the Reporting Manager elaborating the reason for resignation and the Last Working Day 
(LWD). In case there is any notice pay recovery, the same should be communicated to the 
resource and the HR Department by the respective reporting manager on real time basis 

Back to Index 

57 

 

 

  Notice Period starts from the day the employee puts in resignation. The separation process 
will be initiated after the concurrence of the Reporting supervisor / Manager and HR. Once 
an employee resigns, he / she shall not be part of any ongoing review 

  An employee who submits his / her resignation is not entitled to avail any leaves while serving 

notice period. Any leave taken during Notice period will be Leave without pay 

  Balance leaves shall not be adjusted against Notice Period 

  As soon as employee resigns, his/her salary for that particular month is put on HOLD. 

  For 1 Month Notice Period: That particular months’ salary is settled with F&F 

  For  2  Month  Notice  Period:  The  resignation  month  salary  will  be  released  on  15th  of 

consecutive month and the 2nd month salary will be settled with F&F 

  For  3  Month  Notice  Period:  The  resignation  month  salary  will  be  released  on  15th  of 
consecutive month and the 2nd month salary will be released on 15th of the next month 
and the 3rd month salary will be settled with F&F 

  Resigned employees have to submit unclaimed vouchers 7 days prior to his / her last working 

day 

  Resigned  employee  has  to  contact  regional  HR  by  email,  three  days  prior  to  his  /  her  last 

working day to complete EXIT formalities 

  An employee who so wishes can withdraw the resignation anytime within the notice period. 

The company reserves the right to accept the withdrawal  

  The onsite employees are required to follow the notice period applicable for during onsite 

deputation, referring to the deputation letter 

  The terms mention in the deputation letter will supersede all the documents provided earlier 

mentioning their notice period 

  An employee who so wishes can withdraw the resignation anytime within the notice period. 

The company reserves the right to accept the withdrawal 

  Employees should not send any goodbye emails to the group email ID’s as the very purpose 
of these ID’s are official, HR will communicate the separation information to appropriate stake 
holders 

 

b. Procedure: 

  The manager must notify the HR Operation about the resignation of the employee  

  HR Ops will initiate, direct and coordinate the post resignation process  

  HR Ops will arrange an exit interview with a HR representative. The Resigned Employee has to be 
contacted by the HR Ops, four days prior to his/her last working day and complete the Exit formalities  
  Employee shall return all property, equipment, electronic devices, materials, records, documents 
and any other related items that have been lent by the company 

 

  All  the  forms  pertaining  to  separation  are  to  be  filled  by  the  employee  and  signed  by  necessary 

authorities as mentioned in the form 

Back to Index 

58 

 

 

  The relieving letter will be issued by the HR Department. The same will be issued to the employee 
only on receipt of clearance from all the relevant departments. In case of pending dues, the requisite 
documents  will  be  handed  over/couriered  to  the  employee  only  after  the  employee  makes 
payments through CASH/DD/Online Payment towards recoveries indicated to him/her  

  The employee needs to confirm the F&F details within 15 days of email initiated to him with his F&F 
details, if he does not respond to that within the said 15 days, It will be considered as accepted & 
the F&F should be accordingly processed & closed. This needs to be communicated to the employee 
as a foot note in the email sent to him  

 

 

In case of recovery from the employees (when they abscond or any other reason), HR should follow 
with the employee for the maximum period of 60 days from the LWD of the employees & then raise 
a request for F&F closure. This can be closed as a write off with HR head’s & CFO’s approval 

In case of breach in any of the clauses as stated in the appointment letter, the full & final settlement 
will be on hold, till further approval from the Legal & Compliance department 

 

c. Relieving / Experience Letter Process: 

 

 

 

If the employee has served complete notice period without deviation, & there is no recovery 
pending, he / she is eligible to get Relieving / Experience Letter 
If an employee has not served notice period (but has resignation acceptance from reporting 
manager), relieving shall be granted subject to full and final settlement process 
If  amount  is  payable  to  employee,  it  will  be  paid  and  Relieving  /  Experience  letter  will  be 
handed over 

 
 
Separation through Termination 

 

a. Separation for Absconding Employees 

  Absconding refers to an employee who is consecutively absent for more than 5 working days 

without any prior approval or intimation 

  Final settlement will be done as per separation policy 
  He or she will not be entitled for Experience Letter etc. 
 
  No Relieving letter will be issued to the employee in this case 

In case of pending dues, legal recovery process will be lodged against the employee 

 
 
 
b. Separation for Employees Absconding during Notice Period 

  When an employee tender’s resignation but absconds prior to completion of notice period, 

the notice period becomes null and void. In such event the absconding process will apply 

  Employee will be liable to pay and notice pay will be recovered from his / her dues 
 
  No Relieving letter will be issued to the employee in this case 

In case of pending dues, legal action may be initiated 

 

Back to Index 

59 

 

c. Separation for other reasons 

 

  Separation  through  termination  may  also  be  the  result  of  gross  misconduct  which  include 
fraud, deceit, violence, willful destruction of property or client facilities and systems, theft, 
sexual  harassment,  unauthorized  use  of  company  facilities  for  personal  business,  physical 
assault on another employee or any other protected classification. Such employees are liable 
to immediate termination of employment 
If in any case recovery arises, the employee will have to pay the same failing which legal action 
will be initiated 
In case of termination due to end of contract, applicable notice period will be waived off on 
discretion/approval of the Project Manager/BU Head 

 

 

  Management reserves the right to release the resources before their notice period in case of 

Project Closure by the client 

 
 
Separation of Employees covered under service agreement 

 

 

 

If an employee has signed a service agreement, he/she is contractually bound to be employed 
with  company  for  the  period  mentioned  in  the  Service  Agreement.  In  case  an  employee 
resigns and his LWD with the company is before completion of the defined period, he/she is 
liable to pay the company as per terms and conditions of service agreement 
 
If employee fails to comply, the employee will be served a notice and necessary legal action 
will be initiated 

  No  relieving  letter  shall  be  given  to  the  employee  and  no  dues  will  be  settled  until  legal 

proceedings are completed 

 

Payout and Recovery 

 

  Full and Final Settlement:  Full and Final settlement of dues will be cleared within 45 days 
after his/her last working day (In case the employees do not acknowledge and respond to 
the F&F statement sent via Email within 15 days, it is considered as accepted and is processed) 

 

  PF and Gratuity (if applicable): PF and Gratuity (if applicable) are paid separately and not as a 
part of final settlement. Gratuity is payable to employees whose total uninterrupted services 
with OeSL is as per Gratuity act. 

Withdrawal of Resignation 
 
On  exceptional  instances  where  an  employee  wishes  to  withdraw  resignation,  he/she  needs  to  submit 
formal letter or mail stating why he/she need to withdraw resignation and that needs to be authorized by 
reporting manager and BU Head and then forwarded to HR department. This clause is applicable prior to 
the LWD of the employee. 
 

Back to Index 

60 

 

 

Once an employee is separated and F&F working received from payroll team, he / she cannot be reactivated. 
He / she will be recruited as new resource.  
 
Rehiring of ex-employees 
 
An ex-employee can be rehired by the company if: 

 
  The employee has separated from the company in accordance with its standard separation 

procedure 

  The employee has served the entire notice period and cleared all pending dues 
  The employee has had no history of any policy violation / misconduct / fraud / disciplinary 

action / sexual harassment / termination due to absconding or abandoning the job 

  All rehires, if hired within time period of 12 months from the separation, shall be at same 

salary and grade as at the time of separation. The only exceptions are: 
 

  If  in  the  interim  period,  since  the  employee  quit,  OeSL  has  gone  through  salary 
corrections / annual increment cycle, thus raising internal salaries all around. In such 
cases the increase should be comparable to the increase given to his / her peers at 
the same level of performance as this former employee’s past record 

  If during the interim period, the employee has gained some critically important and 

scarce additional knowledge, which deserves higher pay 
 

  All these cases must have specific sign-off / approvals from BU Head 

 

  Any exception to this policy has to be approved by management 
 

Transfer 

 

The company reserves the right to transfer the services of an employee to any other present or future office 
or client locations of the company. For all permanent transfers, the company will pay per diem expenses for 
a  max  period  of  7  days  including  accommodation.  For  all  temporary  transfers  (3  months  or  less),  the 
employee is eligible only for accommodation. Employees can claim for the above expenses only after prior 
official letter from the HR Department. Non-acceptance of any transfer will be termed as an indiscipline 
conduct and may result in termination.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Back to Index 

61 

 

 
 

 
 

11. Learning & Development 

 

 
11.1 Learning and Development  
 
 
OeSL believes in overall development of its employees. Training need identification is done on a regular 
basis and need based trainings are conducted. With this our employee’s technical as well as non-technical 
skills are enhanced. We do conduct in-house training programs as well as sponsor our employees to external 
training programs also.  
 
Wherever  Job  specific  training  is  important  to  an  external  training  sponsored  by  the  company, the  cost 
incurred for such training will be recovered from the employee if he / she leaves the organization within 12 
months from the date of completion of training. 
 
Regular feedback is taken after training and training effectiveness is assessed after a month of the training. 

 
 

Back to Index 

62 

 

 

12.1 Events  
 

Onward Day 

12. Miscellaneous 

 

 

 

Onward Foundation Day is celebrated in the first week of August every year.  Onwardians organizes this 
event  to  bring  together  employees  across  division,  departments,  locations  and  hierarchies  with  a 
governing spirit of oneness and togetherness.  
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

Back to Index 

 

63 

 

 

Team Events, Cultural Events, CSR and Employee Engagement activities:  

We also have various other events (cultural/sports/excursions/ CSR / Team Outings etc.) that add life to 
our work and foster team spirit amongst Onward Family.  

 

 
 
 

 

Back to Index 

                           

 

64 

 

 

12.2 Overseas Assignments/Opportunities 

 

OeSL provides overseas opportunities to its employees based on their performance and skills. The best 
performers are given bigger roles and great opportunities to work. The employees are transferred to 
various offices abroad based on their role and position. 
 
 
12.3 Assets 
 

  Company may provide employees various assets such as Laptop, Internet Data card, Laptop Bag etc. 
depending purely on the business needs and the functional roles with prior approval of the BU Head 

  The assets allocated to employee/resources are on returnable basis 
  System  once  provided  will  not  be  replaced  for  minimum  period  of  3  years  unless  project 

demands/approved by the concerned authority 

  Unauthorized installation/usage of software / freeware / hardware is not permitted and will be viewed 

seriously and penalties will be levied on the basis of IS inspection reports 

  Any add-on requirements will be permitted based on specific project demand / reporting manager’s 

recommendation 

  The assets fall under OeSL’s information’s security and back-up policies are to be handed over to IS 

department to implement such policies as per the frequency defined by the policies 

  Employee need to ensure that the assets are used for official purpose and with proper care  

  Employees  are  expected  to  return the  assets  if asked  by the  company from  time  to  time  and  also 

before the separation from the organization  

 

In case of loss or damages or personal use of any of the assets given to the employees, an appropriate 
amount  will  be  recovered  from  employee’s  salary  from  the  immediate  next  payroll  or  from  the 
settlement in case of employee leaving the organization, after the reporting of loss or damage of the 
asset 

 

In case of loss due to theft, the employee should inform the IS department, Administration Head and 
the Reporting Manager 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Back to Index 

65 

 

 

12.4 Laptop Policy 
 
Eligibility 
 
All employees holding grade E3, M3 & above will be entitled for an official Laptop, by default in lieu of 
Desktop on their date of joining. For all other grades, depending on the business requirements and the 
nature of the job, employees may be provided with laptops based on the approval by BU head. Company 
provided Laptops are intended to be used for company and official purpose only. 
 
Users are responsible for maintaining appropriate back-ups, especially of the work related 
documentation & data created that cannot be retrieved by reinstalling operating system or Program The 
users will have direct responsibility and custody of their assigned laptops. They will be held financially 
liable for any loss and / or damage to the company asset due to inappropriate usage / carelessness.  
Although all our assets are insured however in case it is out of purview of the insurance scope the 
employee will have to bear the cost of the lost asset as per our Asset policy guidelines. 
 
 
 
12.5 Inspection Policy 
 
Security guards in Onward are trained to frisk employees/ personnel when necessary. To avoid any kind 
of theft from Onward premises, this policy is strictly obeyed. 
 
Guidelines 
 
  This policy is for maintaining confidentiality of company/ Customer data 
  This is to restrict employees from any direct / indirect action against company welfare 
  All employees are expected to cooperate in this process 

 
Process 

 
 

  Anytime & on any day frisking can be done by the security team randomly 
  For male employees frisking will be by a male security guard in the presence of HR 

representative 

  For female employees frisking will be by a female member of the Administrative/HR 

 
 

representative 
In this process physical and material frisking can be done 
If anybody is found taking company material outside without permission, HR will take 
strict action against that employee, not limited to Termination 

Back to Index 

66 

 

12.6 Social Media Policy  

 

Every day, people interact with thousands of other people on social media. We recognize the importance 
of these interactions and are committed to ensure we are interacting in the right way. These Online Social 
Media Guidelines have been developed to help Company employees better represent our company and 
its brand and values. The Company encourages all of its associates to explore and engage in social media 
communities  at  a  level  at  which  they  feel  comfortable.  Have  fun,  but  be  smart.  The  best  advice  is  to 
approach online worlds in the same way we do the physical one – by using sound judgment and common 
sense 
 

1.  You  are  responsible  for  your  actions.  Anything  you  post  that  can  potentially  tarnish  the 
Company’s image will ultimately be your responsibility. We do encourage you to participate in 
the online social media space, but urge you to do so properly, exercising sound judgment and 
common sense. 

2.  Be conscious when mixing your business and personal lives. Online, your personal and business 
personas  are  likely  to  intersect.  The  Company  respects  the  free  speech  rights  of  all  of  its 
associates,  but  you  must  remember  that  customers,  colleagues  and  supervisors  often  have 
access to the online content you post. Keep this in mind when publishing information online that 
can be seen by more than friends and family, and know that information originally intended just 
for friends and family can be forwarded on. Remember NEVER to disclose non-public information 
of the Company (including confidential information), and be aware that taking public positions 
online that are counter to the Company’s interests might cause conflict. 

3.  When in doubt, do not post. Associates are personally responsible for their words and actions, 
wherever they are. You must ensure that your posts are completely accurate and not misleading, 
and that they do not reveal non-public information of the Company. Exercise  sound judgment 
and common sense, and if there is any doubt, DO NOT POST IT. 

4.  Give credit where credit is due and don’t violate others’ rights. DO NOT claim authorship of 
something that is not yours. If you are using another party’s content, make certain that they are 
credited for it in your post and that they approve of you utilizing their content. Do not use the 
copyrights,  trademarks,  publicity  rights,  or  other  rights  of  others  without  the  necessary 
permissions of the rights holder(s). 

5.  Remember  that  your  local  posts  can  have  global  significance.  The  way  that  you  answer  an 
online question might be accurate in some parts of the world, but inaccurate (or even illegal) in 
others. Keep that “world view” in mind when you are participating in online conversations. 

6.  Know that the Internet is permanent. Once information is published online, it is essentially part 
of a permanent record, even if you “remove/delete” it later or attempt to make it anonymous. 
If your complete thought, along with its context, cannot be squeezed into a character-restricted 
space (such as Twitter), provide a link to an online space where the message can be expressed 
completely and accurately. 

7.  Respect  other  people’s  views  and  maintain  integrity.  Dishonorable  content  such  as  racial, 

ethnic, sexual, religious, and physical disability slurs are not tolerated. 

Back to Index 

67 

 

 

8.  Confidentiality.  Employees  are  not  allowed  to  disclose  information  that  are  financial, 
operational and legal in nature, as well as any information that pertains to clients and customers. 

 

 
 
Final thoughts: 
 
Use  of  social  media  platforms  in  accordance  with  this  policy  can  be  a  very  effective  and  powerful 
communication tool. Be proud of what you do and enjoy a sense of accomplishment in the search for 
better quality and greater efficiency. Above all, please use good judgment, be attentive to others, and 
take the trouble to listen and be understood. 

 
12.7 Job Safety 
 
Guidelines  
 
Your safety is of prime importance to the company.  We make every reasonable effort to provide you 
with a safe place to work. We want you to be safe on the job as well as off. When you think safety, you 
make things safe for yourself and your fellow employees. Safety can only be achieved through 
teamwork. Each employee must practice safety awareness by thinking defensively, anticipating unsafe 
situations and reporting unsafe conditions immediately. Regardless of the severity, all accidents and/or 
injuries must be reported to a Supervisor immediately. In the event of any accident and/or workplace 
injury, the Company reserves the right to have those employees involved in the accident and/or 
workplace injury tested for alcohol, illegal drugs, or controlled substances following such accident 
and/or workplace related injury, subject to compliance with applicable laws. 
 
 
 
12.8 Copyright 
 
All written material, whether held on paper or electronically or magnetically as may be acquired by an 
employee during the course of employment with the Company, is the property of the Company and 
subject to copyright protection. At the time of termination of employment, or at any other time upon 
request, all employees must return all such materials to the Company. 
 
 
 
 

Back to Index 

68 

 

 

12.9 Statements to Media 
 
Employees are not permitted to make statements to the media. Only those designated by senior 
management will give any statement to reporters from newspapers, radio, television etc. 

 

 
12.10 Suggestions 
 
The exchange of ideas within our organization is considered by management to be an asset and is 
strongly encouraged. Your thoughts concerning ways of increasing productively, improving the quality of 
our work, projects, safety, and other relate matters are welcome. Address your suggestions to the 
Human Resources Department of the Company. 

 

OeSL Wishes you all great success in FY 2020-21. 
 

 
 

Thank You! 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

Back to Index 

69 

 

 

 

 
 

13. FAQ’s 

Sr.No. 

FAQ's 

Answers 

1  Where are all our global offices located 

USA, Germany & UK 

2  Which ISO accreditation we have 

ISO 9001:2015 

3 

Is the confidentiality clause mentioned in my 
appointment letter same as what is mentioned in the 
employee handbook 

Yes. Appointment letter clause 

is descriptive 

Do we have Compensatory off policy 

4  Will I get an Increment when I will be confirmed 
5 
6  What is the Attendance regularization system 
7 
8 

Can we wear casuals on Friday 
How many Holidays do we have in a calendar year 

No 
No 

Biometrics and Physical Muster 

No 
10 

21, calculated prorate basis for 

9 

How many leaves does an employee get in a year 

any employee joining within 

10 
11 

12 

13 

Do we have leave carry forward system 
Do we have dedicated smoking area in the office 

Is there a dedicated appraisal cycle every year for all 
employees 

Can we transfer PF from our previous company to 
OeSL 

15 

Do we have parental insurance policy 

year 

To the limit of 21 

No 

Yes 

Yes 

Yes 

14  What is the Amount I will get if I refer any employee 

Subject to the policy 

announcement 

Back to Index 

 

70 

